{\rtf1
{\comment
ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ

                                  Bozo Help

                     Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT Version

   Copyright (c) 1994-1999 by Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 This file and all associated files are subject to the terms of the
 GNU Lesser General Public License version 2 as published by the
 Free Software Foundation (http://www.gnu.org).   They remain the
 property of the authors: Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn.
 See LICENSE.TXT in the distribution for a copy of this license.

 THE AUTHORS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE CORRECTNESS
 OF THIS CODE OR ANY DERIVATIVE WORKS WHICH INCORPORATE IT.  THE AUTHORS
 PROVIDE THE CODE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS AND EXPLICITLY DISCLAIMS ANY
 LIABILITY, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL AND INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FOR ERRORS,
 OMISSIONS, AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN THE CODE.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

                        http://www.mythos-engine.org/

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 Bozo is a component of the MythOS(tm) collection.

 MythOS is a trademark of Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.

ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ
}

{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss Arial;
\f1\froman Times New Roman;
\f2\fmodern Courier New;
\f3\fswiss MS Sans Serif;
\f4\froman MS Serif;
}
\deff1
\fs21

{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
}

{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                            Programmer's Guide

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_BOZO_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_PG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Bozo}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Bozo} is a library of routines that support non-preemptive
 tasking for Win32 applications (he's also a famous entertainer,
 but that's another story!).
\par

{\cf4
These routines were developed for the Visual C++ 2.X compiler, and are
 not guaranteed to work on any other system.  The application must be built
 as a Win32 application, and must not use C++ exception handling.}\par

Since Win32 provides a preemptive thread-based tasking model,
 another tasking library may seem unnecessary.  However, {\i Bozo's}
 model is non-preemptive, and can be used to simulate coroutines
 and other complex control structures.  Additionally, the context
 switch time for a {\i Bozo} task is very small (hardly more than a
 function call), and {\i Bozo} tasks do not require inter-task
 coordination primitives like critical sections.  For these
 reasons, {\i Bozo} is still a useful library, even given the Win32
 threading ability.
\par

{\i Bozo} provides two distinct interfaces.  One is a C-callable
 interface that provides the basic tasking and queuing
 functionality, as well as support for semaphores.  The other is
 a C++ class library, which provides a slightly more useable
 model.
\par

Bozo's tasking model consists of two parts: the task object, and
 the task queue.
\par

A task object encapsulates an execution path and a stack for
 execution.  The execution path of a task is defined by a passed
 function pointer.  All tasks share the same address space, but
 since stacks are not shared, any automatic variables declared in
 the task's function are unique to that task.  Additionally, each
 task has "task-local storage", which is a user-defined pointer
 stored in the task context, and accessible through API calls.
 This simple model corresponds to the notion of threads in Win32.
 However, since {\i Bozo} is non-preemptive, tasks must explicitly
 yield to the system when they are done.  When a task wishes to
 be destroyed, it may either return from its task function, or
 call one of the termination routines.
\par

Task queues are containers for tasks.  A task may only be in one
 queue at a time.  There is one special task queue, called the
 'ReadyQ', from which {\i Bozo's} library functions draws tasks to
 execute.  When the ReadyQ is empty, {\i Bozo} terminates the
 application.  Other task queues may be created by the
 application for more sophisticated task management.  One example
 of such a use is the BozoSemaphore type.  Semaphores are a
 synchronization concept, in which tasks queue up behind a
 semaphore, and wait for it to be released.  The first task in
 the queue acquires the semaphore and is added to the ReadyQ, and
 all other tasks wait until the semaphore is released.  In this
 way, access to a resource can be serialized.  (See a book on
 multitasking primitives for a more complete discussion.)  The
 BozoGate provides another example.  The gate queues up waiting
 tasks until it is opened.  At that point, all waiting tasks are
 entered into the ReadyQ.  All subsequent waits return
 immediately, until the gate is closed.
\par

It is worth noting that since {\i Bozo} is non-preemptive, the use of
 synchronization primitives might seem unnecessary.  This is not
 the case.  The synchronization primitives can actually be used
 to drive the tasking.  Since a task may only be in one queue at
 a time, any task that enters a semaphore or gate automatically
 yields to the next task in the ReadyQ.  In fact, the yield
 primitive simply adds the current task to the end of the ReadyQ,
 and yields to the next task.
\par

Upon initialization, the "task" defined by the currently
 executing program is entered into the ReadyQ as the only task.
 This allows the main task to participate in the multitasking
 directly, rather than having to "drive" some sort of task pump.
 The main task is identical to a created task, but with one
 important difference:  The main task may not terminate by
 returning, it must call the task termination API.  The reason
 for this is simple; since {\i Bozo} was not initialized before main()
 was called, it had no way to arrange for this behavior.  For
 this reason, the main task is often used as a "null task", which
 never leaves the ReadyQ.  Since {\i Bozo} terminates the application
 when the ReadyQ becomes empty, a null task allows the user to
 explicitly control the termination of their application.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Definitions}\par

{\b Task}\par

The single unit of execution.  A task encapsulates an execution
 stream and stack.  The tasks do not have distinct address spaces.
\par

{\b Queue}\par

A first in, first out list of items.  In Bozo, queues hold
 tasks, and a task may only be in one queue at a time.
\par

{\b Task-Local Storage}\par
Each task context has unique storage of a single pointer.  In
 the case of the C-callable subsystem, this pointer may be used
 to distinguish between task instances that are executing the
 same code.  The C++ subsystem will normally not need to use this
 storage.
\par

{\b ReadyQ}\par
Actually a global data item found in the task queue subsystem,
 this "ready queue" is the task queue from which the processor
 draws tasks to execute, and all subsystems use to schedule
 tasks.  When this queue is empty, the system terminates the
 application.  In this way, it is "magic", and deserves to be
 mentioned independently of its class definition.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

Creation of non-preemptive tasks which share an address space.
\par

A simple model of yielding execution, in which the current task
 may enter any task queue desired before yielding to any other
 task queue desired.  Usually, both of these tasks will be the
 ReadyQ.
\par

A private storage of task-local data, unique to each task.
\par

Task queue primitives for creating complex task scheduling models.
\par

Semaphore task synchronization primitives. (Based on task queues)
\par

A C++ class library that not only simplifies access to the Bozo
 system, but provides for parent-child class relationships in
 which the child tasks are terminated when the parent dies.
\par

A C++ task class, from which user tasks may be derived.
 Destruction of the task object automatically removes the
 underlying task from any task queues.
\par

A task gate class in the C++ library for blocking a number of
 tasks until an event occurs.  (Based on task queues)
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Future Work}\par

The {\i Bozo} library is complete.  All additional functionality
 required should be implemented as application-specific classes
 and extensions.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Bozo C Interface: Tasking                                                 ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_BOZO_CTASKING}
${\footnote C Tasking}
K{\footnote
 bz_task_func;
 bz_init_task;
 bz_create;
 bz_spawn;
 bz_term;
 bz_return;
 bz_get_tls;
 bz_set_tls}
+{\footnote BW_PG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Bozo}\line\fs32 Bozo C Tasking Interface}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Bozo}'s C interface for tasking provides the routines needed to
 create and destroy tasks, as well as initialize the tasking
 system and get task-specific data.  During {\b bz_init_task()}, the
 currently executing program is set up as the first task in the
 system.  At any time, this routine may choose to {\b bz_return()},
 which removes it from the {\b ReadyQ}.  When all threads have been
 removed from the {\b ReadyQ}, the system calls {\b exit()}.  Note that
 this helps to eliminate deadlocks.  All {\b bz_create()}'d tasks may
 destroy themselves by returning normally.  This is the same as
 calling {\b bz_return()}, except that {\b bz_return()} can work deep
 inside of a nested task.
\par

{\cf2 Note:  If {\i Bozo} is used in a Windowed application, care
 should be taken to use the normal termination procedures for Windows
 apps, rather than allowing {\i Bozo} to terminate the program.}\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "bztask.h"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Functions}\par


{\b void (*bz_task_func) (void *)}
\par
This function is supplied by the user.  It is called when the
 task begins execution.  Once this function returns, the task has
 ended, and the context is destroyed.  This function may also
 terminate itself by calling bz_return().
\par

{\b void bz_init_task (IvorySubAlloc *)}
\par

Initializes the {\i Bozo} system, and establishes the current thread
 of execution as the current "task", so that it may be safely
 suspended.  The parameter specifies an Ivory suballocator to use
 when allocating stacks for bozo tasks.  This parameter may be
 NULL to force the use of the standard allocators.
\par

{\b void bz_create (bz_task_func, int stack, void *params)}
\line
{\b void bz_spawn (bz_task_func, int stack, void *params)}
\par

These two functions create a basic task with a stack of the
 given size.  Execution begins at the function supplied.  The
 difference between these two is that bz_spawn() automatically
 enters the task into the ReadyQ, whereas bz_create() does not.
\par


{\b void bz_term (bz_task *)}
\par

Terminate the supplied task.  Assumes that the supplied task is
 not the current task.  To terminate the current task, use
 bz_return().  This routine also removes the task from any queue
 it happens to be in.
\par

{\b void bz_return ()}
\par
Terminates the current task, and switches to the next task in
 the ReadyQ.  If there is no task to switch to, exit() is called.
\par

{\b void bz_get_tls ()}
\line
{\b void bz_set_tls (void*)}
\par

Get and set the task local storage pointer.  This pointer is
 stored with the task context, so a task function can use this
 value as instance data.

\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

This fragment creates a task which prints "Hello, Bozo!" and returns.
\par

{\f2
void my_task (void *param)\line
\{\line
\tab printf ("Hello, %s!\n", param);\line
\}\par
main ()\line
\{\line
\tab bz_init_task();\line
\tab bz_spawn (my_task, stack_size, "Bozo");\line
\tab bz_suspend();      // Let the task run\line
\tab printf ("Goodbye\n");\line
\}
}
\par

\pard\page

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Bozo C Interface: Queue Management                                        ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_BOZO_CQUEUEING}
${\footnote C Queueing}
K{\footnote
 bzqueue_init;
 bzqueue_empty;
 bzqueue_enter;
 bzqueue_push;
 bzqueue_leave;
 bzqueue_remove}
+{\footnote BW_PG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Bozo}\line\fs32 Bozo Queue Management}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Bozo} provides queues for tasks to live within.  These queues
 operate as you would expect, and are the basis for all task
 manipulation primitives.  One global variable is supplied:
 {\i ReadyQ}, which is the queue from which tasks are scheduled to
 run.  These queues are FIFO, so no priorities may be assigned to
 queue entries.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "bzqueue.h"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Global Data}\par

{\b bz_task *Task;}\par

A pointer to the currently running task.  This variable is
 usually only used by the library, but is provided for external
 use, since it will likely be required by any custom task
 switching models that cannot simply use {\b bz_yield()}.
\par

{\b bz_task_queue ReadyQ;}\par

The ReadyQ (ready queue) is the queue from which processes are
 taken to execute.  All {\i Bozo} routines are aware of this variable,
 and use it whenever necessary.  {\b ReadyQ} is initialized by
 {\b bozo_init_task()};
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Functions}\par

{\b void bzqueue_init (bz_task_queue *)}\par
Initialize a task queue to empty.  All queues must be
 initialized before they are by any of the {\i Bozo} routines.
\par

{\b int bzqueue_empty (bz_task_queue*)}\par
Returns the empty status of the queue.
\par

{\b void bzqueue_enter (bz_task_queue*, bz_task*)}\par
Cause the task to enter the queue.
\par

{\b void bzqueue_push (bz_task_queue*, bz_task*)}\par
Adds the specified task to the beginning of the task queue.  Use
 of this call is not recommended, but is provided for the rare
 occasion in which it might be necessary.
\par

{\b bz_task *bzqueue_leave (bz_task_queue*)}\par
Cause the next {\b bz_task} to leave the queue.  It is an error to
 remove tasks from an empty queue.
\par

{\b void bzqueue_remove (bz_task_queue*, bz_task*)}\par
Remove the task from the queue, regardless of its position.
 This is a somewhat expensive operation.

\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

This fragment shows how to move a task from one queue to another.
\par

{\f2
void dispatch_event (bz_task_queue *evt_queue)\line
\{\line
\tab if (!bzqueue_empty (evt_queue))\line
\tab \{\line
\tab \tab bz_task *t = bzqueue_leave (evt_queue);\line
\tab \tab bzqueue_enter (&ReadyQ, t);\line
\tab \}\line
\}\line
}
\par

\pard\page
{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Bozo C Interface: Semaphores                                              ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_BOZO_CSEMAPHORE}
${\footnote C Semaphores}
K{\footnote
 bzsem_init;
 bzsem_wait;
 bzsem_signal}
+{\footnote BW_PG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Bozo}\line\fs32 Bozo C Interface: Semaphores}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Bozo} provides for counting semaphores to ease inter-task
 communications.  A semaphore is a method of serializing access
 to some resource.  The semaphore is initialized with a certain
 number of "tokens".  As tasks wait on the semaphore, tokens are
 consumed.  If no tokens remain, the task must wait in the
 semaphore's task queue until one of the other tasks signals that
 it is done with its token.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "bzsemap.h"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Functions}\par

{\b void bzsem_init (bz_semaphore *, int count)}\par
Initialize a semaphore to contain 'count' tokens.
\par

{\b void bzsem_wait (bz_semaphore *)}\par
Take a token.  If none is available, enter the semaphore's queue.
\par

{\b void bzsem_signal (bz_semaphore *)}\par
If a task is in the queue, move it to the ReadyQ.  Otherwise, increment the token count.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

This example shows two tasks that can act in a producer/consumer
 relationship.  The calls to wait and signal will permit the
 tasks to execute in the correct sequence.
\par

{\f2
bz_semaphore sem;\line
int val;\par
void task1 (void *param)\line
\{\line
\tab for (;;)\line
\tab \{\line
\tab \tab bzsem_wait (&sem);\line
\tab \tab val++;\line
\tab \tab bzsem_signal (&sem);\line
\tab \}\line
\}\par

void task2 (void *param)\line
\{\line
\tab for (;;)\line
\tab \{\line
\tab \tab bzsem_wait (&sem);\line
\tab \tab printf ("Value = %d\n", val);\line
\tab \tab bzsem_signal (&sem);\line
\tab \}\line
\}\par

main ()\line
\{\line
\tab bz_init_task();\line
\tab bzsem_init (&sem, 0);\line
\tab bz_spawn (task1, 0x1000, 0);\line
\tab bz_spawn (task2, 0x1000, 0);\line
\tab bz_suspend();      // Let the tasks bzsem_wait()\line
\tab bzsem_signal (&sem);\line
\tab bz_return();       // Get out of the way\line
\}
}
\par

\pard\page
{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Bozo C Interface: Miscellaneous Routines                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_BOZO_CMISC}
${\footnote C Miscellaneous}
K{\footnote
 bz_yield;
 bz_suspend}
+{\footnote BW_PG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Bozo}\line\fs32 Bozo C Interface: Miscellaneous Routines}\par\pard\sb100

These routines do not logically belong to any of the above
 groups, but are provided as convenience routines to help hide
 some of the complexity of task management.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "bzsemap.h"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Functions}\par

{\b void bz_yield (bz_task_queue*save, bz_task_queue*restore)}\par
Place the current task on the specified queue (save) and
 activate the next task in the specified queue (restore).
\par

{\b void bz_suspend ()}\par
The same as {\b bz_yield (&ReadyQ, &ReadyQ)}.  Provided for a simple
 interface that uses the "Standard" run_queue to be compatible
 with the other {\i Bozo} high-level tasking APIs.
\par

\pard\page
{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Bozo C++ Interface: Tasking                                               ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_BOZO_TASK}
${\footnote BozoTask}
K{\footnote
 BozoTask;
 BozoTask, init;
 BozoTask, run;
 BozoTask, yield}
+{\footnote BW_PG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Bozo}\line\fs32 BozoTask Class}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Bozo} provides a base task class from which new task classes may
 be derived.  Like the C interface, a C++ program must call the
 {\b bz_init_task()} function.  Child tasks may be emulated by making
 task members to a "parent" task object.  The ordinary
 construction/destruction rules will ensure proper behavior.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

{\b BozoTask}\par
This class encapsulates the concept of the task.  A user application derives a new class publicly from this one.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "bzwrap.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

None
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b BozoTask (int stack_size = 0x1000)}\par
Initializes the task to run with a stack of the given size.  By
 default, the task is not placed into any queues.  This must be
 done by calling the {\b init()} member.  The destructor removes the
 task from any queues that it is in, so it is safe to destroy the
 task at any time.  (Although it is more efficient to destroy the
 task when it is not in any queues).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

None
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

{\b bozo_task *init (bz_task_queue *q = ReadyQ)}\par
Initialize the task and place it into the specified queue.  Any
 task may be initialized at any point.  This has the effect of
 killing the task and making a new one.  The return value is
 the bozo_task pointer.  As this value is encapsulated in the
 BozoTask object, this pointer is actually returned as a
 success code, NULL for failure and non-null for success.
\par

{\b virtual void run ()}\par
This is the member that is executed as the "task".  Once {\b init()}
 is called and the task comes up in the ReadyQ for the first
 time, this member is executed.  Once this member returns, the
 task is destroyed.  Consequently, the {\b run()} member is really the
 task's "main" routine.  Note that unlike the C interface, this
 member takes no parameters.  It is assumed that the object
 itself contains sufficient state data.
\par

{\b void yield (bz_task_queue *dest_q = &ReadyQ, bz_task_queue *src_q = &ReadyQ)}\par
 Yields the task onto the specified destination queue, and
 switches to the next process in the src_q.  By default, the
 {\b ReadyQ} is specified for both queues, to maintain compatibility
 with the standard {\i Bozo} high-level tasking routines, which all
 use {\b ReadyQ} as their "ready to run" queue.
\par

{\b void bz_return ()}\par
 Returns from the task.  This has the same effect as exiting the task
 member, but can be called from any task member.  Note that it may
 only be called by the task that owns the 'this' pointer.  For this
 reason, it is a protected member.
\par

{\b void bz_term ()}\par
 Terminates the task.  This has the same effect as exiting the task
 member, but can be called from any task except for the task
 being terminated.  This member is used to kill another task.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

Create a task that prints a message and then dies.
\par

{\f2
class MyTask: public BozoTask\line
\{\line
\tab char *message;\line
\line
public:\line
\tab MyTask (char *msg): BozoTask(), message(msg) \{ \}\line
\tab ~MyTask() \{ \}\line
\tab void run ()\line
\tab \{\line
\tab \tab cout << message << endl;\line
\tab \}\line
\};\par
main ()\line
\{\line
\tab bz_init_task();\line
\tab MyTask t ("Hello, Bozo!");\line
\tab t.init();\line
\tab bz_suspend();\line
\tab cout << "The End\n";\line
\}\line
}
\par

\pard\page
{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Bozo C++ Interface: Semaphores                                            ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_BOZO_SEMAPHORE}
${\footnote BozoSemaphore}
K{\footnote
 BozoSemaphore;
 BozoSemaphore, wait;
 BozoSemaphore, signal}
+{\footnote BW_PG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Bozo}\line\fs32 BozoSemaphore Class}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Bozo}'s C++ semaphore class provides a more convenient, C++-ish
 way to access the {\b bz_semaphore} types.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

{\b BozoSemaphore}\par
This class is a wrapper for the {\b bz_semaphore} object.  This class is not intended to be derived from.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "bzwrap.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

public bz_semaphore
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b BozoSemaphore (int count = 1)}\par
Initialize the semaphore with the specified count.
\par
{\b ~BozoSemaphore ()}\par
Frees the semaphore.  Any tasks waiting on the semaphore are put into an indeterminate state.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

None
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

{\b void wait ()}\par
Wait on the semaphore.  If any counts are left, return
 immediately.  Otherwise, enter the semaphore's queue and wait
 for a Signal().
\par

{\b void signal ()}\par
Remove one task from the semaphore's queue and put it into the
 {\b ReadyQ}.  If no tasks are available, increment the count.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

Here is a code fragment showing the proper usage of the {\b BozoSemaphore}.
\par

{\f2
extern BozoSemaphore sem;\par
...\par
\{\line
\tab sem.wait();\line
\tab cout << "Got it!\n";\line
\tab sem.signal();\line
\}
}
\par

\pard\page
{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Bozo C++ Interface: Gates                                                 ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_BOZO_GATE}
${\footnote BozoGate}
K{\footnote
 BozoGate;
 BozoGate, wait;
 BozoGate, open;
 BozoGate, close}
+{\footnote BW_PG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Bozo}\line\fs32 BozoGate Class}\par\pard\sb100

A gate is similar to a semaphore.  However, instead of having a
 number of tokens, the gate allows any number of tasks to wait on
 it until the gate is opened.  At that time, all waiting tasks
 are returned to the {\b ReadyQ}, and the gate is empty.  Any
 subsequent tasks that wait on the gate are passed through, until
 the gate is manually closed again.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

{\b BozoGate}\par

This task queue-derived class allows for a unique method of synchronizing task execution.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "bzwrap.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

public bz_task_queue
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b BozoGate ()}\par
Create and initialize the gate task queue.  The gate is created closed.
\par

{\b ~BozoGate()}\par
Destroy the task gate.  Open the gate to release any tasks.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

None
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

{\b void wait ()}\par
If the gate is closed, enter the current task into the gate
 queue.  Switch to the next task in the ReadyQ.  If the gate is
 opened, return immediately.
\par


{\b void open ()}\par
Remove all tasks from the gate queue and enter them (in order)
into the ReadyQ.  Mark the gate as opened.
\par

{\b void close ()}\par
Mark the gate as closed.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

Here is a code fragment that demonstrates tasks entering a gate.
\par

{\f2
BozoGate gate;\par
class MyTask: public BozoTask\line
\{\line
\tab char *msg;\line
\line
public:\line
\line
\tab MyTask (char *_msg): BozoTask(), msg(_msg) \{ \}\line
\tab ~MyTask () \{ \}\line
\line
\tab void run()\line
\tab \{\line
\tab gate.wait();\line
\tab cout << msg << endl;\line
\tab \}\line
\};\par
void main ()\line
\{\line
\tab bz_init_task();\line
\tab MyTask a ("a"), b("b"), c ("c");\line
\tab bz_suspend();      // Let the tasks enter the gate\line
\tab gate.open();\line
\tab bz_return();       // Let the tasks run!\line
\}
}
\par

\pard\page

{\comment °±² eof - template.rtf ²±° }
}
