{\rtf1
{\comment
ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ

                               Utilities Help

                     Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT Version

   Copyright (c) 1994-1999 by Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 This file and all associated files are subject to the terms of the
 GNU Lesser General Public License version 2 as published by the
 Free Software Foundation (http://www.gnu.org).   They remain the
 property of the authors: Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn.
 See LICENSE.TXT in the distribution for a copy of this license.

 THE AUTHORS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE CORRECTNESS
 OF THIS CODE OR ANY DERIVATIVE WORKS WHICH INCORPORATE IT.  THE AUTHORS
 PROVIDE THE CODE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS AND EXPLICITLY DISCLAIMS ANY
 LIABILITY, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL AND INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FOR ERRORS,
 OMISSIONS, AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN THE CODE.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

                        http://www.mythos-engine.org/

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 These utilities are components of the MythOS(tm) collection.

 MythOS is a trademark of Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.

ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ
}

{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss Arial;
\f1\froman Times New Roman;
\f2\fmodern Courier New;
\f3\fswiss MS Sans Serif;
\f4\froman MS Serif;
}
\deff1
\fs21

{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
}

{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                               User's Guide

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote UG_UTIL_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_UG_7}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps User's Guide: Utilities}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

In addition to the utilities associated with the individual
 components of MythOS, additional programs are provided.
 These are outside of the scope of the individual components,
 but provide services which are needed to take full advantage of
 the MythOS collection.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

Bitmap recoloring utility to ensure all images are precolored
 with the run-time {\i Van Gogh} palette.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Future Work}\par

The Picture Utility will have an interactive mode added in the
 near future.  Other utilities will be added as the need arises.
\par

\pard\page

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Picture Utility                                                           ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote UG_UTIL_PIC}
${\footnote Picture Utility}
K{\footnote PIC}
+{\footnote BW_UG_7}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps User's Guide: Utilities}\line\fs32 Picture Utility}\par\pard\sb100

This program is used to recolor and/or convert a number of image
 formats supported by the {\i XFile} library.  The recoloring
 operation is needed to force the bitmaps to use the {\i Van Gogh}
 palette, which is typically fixed for the lifetime of a given
 viewport.  In order to avoid costly real-time color conversion,
 this utility performs the processing off-line.
\par

The utility performs the following steps:
\par

Loads image and {\i Van Gogh} palette.
\par

Display any requested image information and/or palette entries.
\par

Converts an image to use the {\i Van Gogh} palette, if requested,
 either by recoloring an 8-bit image or converting the format.
\par

Saves image, if requested.
\par

The utility currently supports BMP, CEL, LBM, PCX, TGA, and XEB
 bitmaps as implemented by the {\i XFile} library.  Some formats
 don't support all bitdepths, so watch for errors.  See {\i XFile}
 for more details.
\par

{\cf2
Note:  When recoloring images, it is best to use a true-color
 input file since this will result in each pixel having the
 closest color match in the new palette.  Transparent bitmaps, however,
 require that an 8-bit image is used as the input with anything that is
 to be transparent set to color 255.
}\par

\line{\b\fs28 Usage}\par

pic [-q |  -i  | -s | -x | -m | -t <fname.pal>]\line
\tab [-p | -2 | -3 ] <fname.xxx> [-o <fname.xxx>]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Options}\par

{\b -q}\par

By default, the utility outputs a number of status messages.
 This option directs the utility to operate silently.
\par

{\b -i}\par

This option directs the utility to display the original images
 statistics, including resolution and color-depth.
\par

{\b -s}\par

This option directs the utility to display the palette entries
 for the original image, if any.
\par

{\b -x}\par

This option will direct the utility to preserve any entries in an 8-bit
 image with index 255.  Since index 255 is used as a transparent color
 index in {\i Van Gogh}, this is needed to prevent the palette conversion
 from destroying these entries.
\par

{\b -m}\par

This option will direct the utility to convert the image to a {\i Van
 Gogh} monochrome Z-map image.  Index 255 is assumed to be a transparent
 color and is mapped to a 0 bit in the Z-map, otherwise it is a 1 bit.
 The result is saved to a .ZMP file (or the output file specified by -o).
\par

{\b -t <fname.pal>}\par

This option is used to specify the {\i Van Gogh} palette file to use
 for all operations.  By default, the file DEFAULT.PAL in the
 same directory as the PIC.EXE is used.
\par

{\cf4\scaps CHANGED}\line
{\b -p}\par

This option will direct the utility to convert the loaded image
 to use loaded palette.  This is the recolor/24-bit/32-bit to 8-bit
 operation.  For a 32-bit image, anything with an alpha less than 255
 is considered transparent.
\par

{\cf4\scaps NEW}\line
{\b -2}\par

This option will direct the utility to convert the loaded image
 to a 15-bit 2 bytes/pixel format.  This does not work on 8-bit images.
\par

{\cf4\scaps NEW}\line
{\b -3}\par

This option will direct the utility to convert the loaded image
 to a 24-bit 3 bytes/pixel format.  This does not work on 8-bit images.
\par

{\b -o <fname.xxx>}\par

This option is used to specify an output image file for the
 loaded and possibly converted image.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

To convert the file TEST.BMP into TEST.CEL using the {\i Van Gogh}
 palette TEST.PAL, the following command is used:
\par

{\f2
pic test.bmp -p -t test.pal -o test.cel
\par
}

\pard\page

{\comment °±² eof - util.rtf ²±° }
}
