{\rtf1
{\comment
ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ

                                 Turner Help

                      Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT Version

   Copyright (c) 1995-1999 by Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 This file and all associated files are subject to the terms of the
 GNU Lesser General Public License version 2 as published by the
 Free Software Foundation (http://www.gnu.org).   They remain the
 property of the authors: Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn.
 See LICENSE.TXT in the distribution for a copy of this license.

 THE AUTHORS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE CORRECTNESS
 OF THIS CODE OR ANY DERIVATIVE WORKS WHICH INCORPORATE IT.  THE AUTHORS
 PROVIDE THE CODE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS AND EXPLICITLY DISCLAIMS ANY
 LIABILITY, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL AND INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FOR ERRORS,
 OMISSIONS, AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN THE CODE.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

                        http://www.mythos-engine.org/

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 Turner is a component of the MythOS(tm) collection.

 MythOS is a trademark of Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.

ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ
}

{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss Arial;
\f1\froman Times New Roman;
\f2\fmodern Courier New;
\f3\fswiss MS Sans Serif;
\f4\froman MS Serif;
}
\deff1
\fs21

{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
}

{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                            Programmer's Guide

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_TURNER_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_PG_C}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Turner}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Turner} is a library written to help the programmer make and
 manage network connections.  {\i Turner} encapsulates the Microsoft
 DirectPlay interface, described in the Microsoft DirectX SDK.
 This library will manage the establishment of network connections
 and the sending and receiving of data amongst players.  It will not
 manage the  synchronization of different machines, nor will it impose
 a framework on the program in which it is used.  For an example of a
 network play game implemented with {\i Turner}, see the Charybdis
 {\b LLander} example included with the MythOS SDK.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

Easy to use interface which virtualizes the DirectPlay system message
 structure.\par

Separate, optional UI for establishing connections.\par

\line{\b\fs28 Organization}\par

{\i Turner} is comprised of two primary classes,
 {\uldb\b TurnerNetwork}{\v PG_TURNER_NETWORK}, and
 {\uldb\b TurnerNetworkUI}{\v PG_TURNER_NETWORKUI}.
 An application derives a new network management
 class from {\b TurnerNetwork}, overloading any member functions
 necessary.  A simplier interface is provided by the
 {\uldb\b TurnerClassic}{\v PG_TURNER_CLASSIC}.
 A {\b TurnerNetworkUI} object may then be instantiated
 to allow a user to establish a connection.  {\b TurnerNetworkUI}
 is in no way "magic", and performs its work by calling {\b TurnerNetwork}
 members.  If a different initialization procedure is desired, merely
 replace {\b TurnerNetworkUI} with a different initialization technique.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
TurnerClassic                                                             ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_TURNER_CLASSIC}
${\footnote TurnerClassic Class}
K{\footnote
 TurnerClassic;
 TurnerClassic, select_provider;
 TurnerClassic, close;
 TurnerClassic, create_game;
 TurnerClassic, connect_game;
 TurnerClassic, set_session_desc;
 TurnerClassic, create_player;
 TurnerClassic, destroy_player;
 TurnerClassic, set_player_name;
 TurnerClassic, set_player_data;
 TurnerClassic, receive;
 TurnerClassic, receive_all;
 TurnerClassic, send;
 TurnerClassic, send_guaranteed;
 TurnerClassic, broadcast;
 TurnerClassic, broadcast_guaranteed;
 TurnerClassic, send_chat;
 TurnerClassic, broadcast_chat;
 TurnerClassic, handle_msg;
 TurnerClassic, handle_chat;
 TurnerClassic, handle_sysmsg;
 TurnerClassic, sys_set_session_desc;
 TurnerClassic, sys_host;
 TurnerClassic, sys_no_session;
 TurnerClassic, sys_newplayer;
 TurnerClassic, sys_delplayer;
 TurnerClassic, sys_set_player_name;
 TurnerClassic, sys_set_player_data;
 TurnerClassic, enum_providers;
 TurnerClassic, enum_sessions;
 TurnerClassic, handle_enum_provider;
 TurnerClassic, handle_enum_session;
 TurnerClassic, is_host;
 TurnerClassic, is_active;
 TurnerClassic, is_valid;
 TurnerClassic, set_flags;
 TurnerClassic, set_async;
 TurnerClassic, set_sendcomplete;
 TurnerClassic, set_player_id;
 TurnerClassic, set_max_players;
 TurnerClassic, set_user;
 TurnerClassic, set_session_name;
 TurnerClassic, set_password;
 TurnerClassic, get_caps;
 TurnerClassic, get_player_caps;
 TurnerClassic, get_send_message_queue;
 TurnerClassic, get_receive_message_queue}
+{\footnote BW_PG_C}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Turner}\line\fs32 TurnerClassic Class}\par\pard\sb100

{\scaps\cf4 NEW}\line
This class encapsulates the basic DirectPlay interface including creation,
 joining, and message sending and processing.  All functionality required
 for creating a multiplayer application is included as well as initialization
 routines for creating sessions.  The class is abstract so the application
 must derive a new class and override handle_msg() and handle_chat() at a
 minimum.
\par

Advanced features such as 'group' usage and advanced send options are
 encapuslated by {\uldb\b TurnerNetwork}{\v PG_TURNER_NETWORK}.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

{\b TurnerClassic}\par
A network connection/management class.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include <turner.hpp>
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

None.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b TurnerClassic (GUID _guid, const char *_name, int _players,
 DWORD sflags=TURNER_DPSESSION_FLAGS);}\par

Initializes the network object with the provided GUID, session name,
 maximum number of players, and session flags ({\i DPSESSION_}).
\par

{\b TurnerClassic (GUID _guid, const char *_name, int _players,
 const char *_passwd, DWORD sflags=TURNER_DPSESSION_FLAGS);}\par

Initializes the network object with the provided GUID, session name,
 maximum number of players, session password, and session
 flags ({\i DPSESSION_}).
\par

The 'guid' used by the constructor is an application GUID which
 must be unique to each different product.  If multiple products
 are to interact via multiplayer, they would have to share the
 same guid but must process all the same messages and share the
 same interpretation of the player and session structures.  To
 prevent previous revisions of a product from being visible to
 a new version, update the GUID (incrementing the last byte will
 usually work).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b dword flags;}\par

State flags for the network object.  The curently defined flags
 used by the object are: {\i TURNER_FLAGS_OPEN} and {\i TURNER_FLAGS_HOST}.
 Application bits have been defined for your use: {\i TURNER_FLAGS_APP0}
 - {\i TURNER_FLAGS_APP7}.  Use set_flags().
\par

{\b DWORD sendfl;}\par

Base send flags used for all send functions.  Use set_async() and
 set_sendcomplete().
\par

{\b IDirectPlay4A *pIDP}\par

This is the DirectPlay interface object used by {\b TurnerNetwork}.
 If for some reason direct access to the DirectPlay object is required,
 this member exposes it.
\par

{\b DPID playerid;}\par

This is the last locally created player id set by create_player().
 This value is used when a 0 is passed as a 'from' parameter to
 one of the send methods.  This can be manually set to another
 locally created player id with set_player_id() although
 future calls to create_player() will overwrite the current value.
\par

{\b DPSESSIONDESC2 session}\par

This structure contains the information used to initialize DirectPlay.
 Some of the fields in this structure may be of interest to the programmer,
 so please refer to Microsoft's DirectPlay documentation for more details.
 Use set_session_desc() to change.
\par

{\b char sessionName[TURNER_MAX_NAME];}\par

This is the session name as set by the contructor.
\par

{\b char password[TURNER_MAX_PASSWD];}\par

This is the password for either creating or joining a {\i DPSESSION_PRIVATE}
 or {\i DPSESSION_PASSWORDREQUIRED} session.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

{\b virtual int select_provider (LPGUID guid);\line
virtual int select_provider (LPVOID address);\line
virtual int select_provider (turner_provider provider, LPVOID data=0);}\par

Selects a service provider which creates the DirectPlay interface.  The
 routines return the DP result code.  Service providers are the method
 of communication such as IPX, TCP/IP, Modem, or perhaps an on-line service.
\par

The first version which takes GUID is meant to take the provider GUID from
 the enum_providers() routine.
\par

The second version takes a DirectPlayLobby address.  The third version
 constructs such an address based on enumeration and optional data:
\par

{\i TURNER_PROVIDER_IPX}\tab\tab Selects IPX networking.\par

{\i TURNER_PROVIDER_TCPIP}\tab\tab Selects TCP/IP networking,
 specifying a network address as a nul-terminated string.\par

{\i TURNER_PROVIDER_MODEM}\tab\tab Selects Modem networking,
 specifying a modem description string as a nul-terminated string.\par

{\i TURNER_PROVIDER_SERIAL}\tab\tab Selects Serial networking,
 specifying a DPCOMPORTADDRESS structure.\par

{\b virtual void close ();}\par

Closes the session, breaking all contact with other players.
\par

{\b virtual int create_game ();}\par

Creates a new game session on the currently select provider service.
 Returns an error if no provider has been selected, or if the game
 cannot be created.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int connect_game (GUID, BOOL create_event = FALSE)}\par

Connects to an existing game on the selected service provider.
 The GUID parameter identifies the game, and must come from the
 list of available sessions on the selected provider.  This list
 can be obtained through the enum_sessions() routine.  During the
 connection, existing players are enumerated to the sys_newplayer()
 method.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int set_session_desc(DPSESSIONDESC2 &desc);}\par

Updates the session description structure.  Only the host of the session
 can change the session description.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual DPID create_player (const char *short_name, const char *long_name,
 LPVOID data=0, DWORD size=0, DWORD _flags=0)}\par

Creates a player in the current session.  The first string
 is a short name, often a handle.  The second string is a full
 name, used to identify the player in a more "formal" way. Optional
 player data can also be specified.  The _flags parameter is 0 for
 a normal player, {\i DPPLAYER_SERVERPLAYER} for a server player
 only creatable on the host machine, or as a {\i DPPLAYER_SPECTATOR}.
 Returns the created player id.
\par

The playerid member variable is set with the return value automatically.
\par

Note that only one player needs to be created locally.  Other
 players are detected during a connect_game() call, and reported
 by way of sys_newplayer().  See Microsoft's DirectPlay documentation
 for more details.
\par

{\b virtual void destroy_player (DPID player);}\par

Removes the player from the session.  All other systems are
 notified of the player's departure.  If the departing player
 initiated the session, no other players will be able to join
 the session, but existing players may continue on unmolested
 unless DPSESSION_MIGRATEHOST was specified in the session
 creation, in which case a sys_host() message is sent to the
 new host machine.
\par

{\b virtual int set_player_name(DPID player,
 const char *short_name, const char *long_name, DWORD _flags=0);}\par

This updates a player's handle and full name.  The _flags parameter
 controls how the name will be propogated: {\i DPSET_GUARANTEED},
 {\i DPSET_LOCAL}, or {\i DPSET_REMOTE} which is the default.
 Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int set_player_data(DPID player, LPVOID data,
 DWORD size, DWORD _flags=0);}\par

This updates a player's data.  The _flags parameter
 controls how the name will be propogated: {\i DPSET_GUARANTEED},
 {\i DPSET_LOCAL}, or {\i DPSET_REMOTE} which is the default.
 Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int receive ();};\par

Checks for a pending message and calls handle_msg() or handle_sysmsg()
 as required.  The receive buffer is maintained internally and
 if the size of a message exceeds the current buffer, a larger
 one is allocated and use for future receive calls.
 Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int receive_all (DWORD timeout=0);}\par

Recieves all pending messages if timeout is 0 or processes pending messages
 until the timeout is exceeded by the handler.
 Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int send (DPID from, DPID to, LPVOID data, DWORD size);\line
virtual int send_guaranteed (DPID from, DPID to, LPVOID data, DWORD size);}\par

Sends a message to a player, group, or DPID_SERVERPLAYER.  The 'from'
 id must be a local player or 0 which indicates the last locally created
 player id ('playerid' member).  If the second version is used, the
 message is sent guaranteed.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int broadcast (DPID from, LPVOID data, DWORD size);\line
virtual int broadcast_guaranteed (DPID from, LPVOID data, DWORD size);}\par

Broadcasts a message to all players.  The 'from' id must be a local
 player or 0 which indicates the last locally created player id
 ('playerid' member).  If the second version is used, the message
 is sent guaranteed.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int send_chat (DPID from, DPID to, char *msg, DWORD _flags=0);\line
virtual int broadcast_chat (DPID from, char *msg, DWORD _flags=0);}\par

Sends or broadcasts a chat message.  The 'from' id must be a local
 player or 0 which indiciates the last locally created player id
 ('playerid' member).  Returns the DP result code.
\par

\line{\b Application message processing methods}\par

{\b virtual void handle_msg (DPID from, DPID to, LPVOID ptr, DWORD size)=0;}\par

This method must be overridden and is called whenever a non-system
 message is pending and the receive() method is invoked.
\par

{\b virtual void handle_chat (DPID fromplayer, DPID toplayer, DPID togroup,
 LPSTR msg)=0;}\par

This method must be overridden and is called whenever a chat system
 message is pending and the receive() method is invoked.  This method
 is called by the default implementation of handle_sysmsg().
\par

\line{\b System message processing methods}\par

{\b virtual void handle_sysmsg (DPID to, DPMSG_GENERIC *msg, DWORD size);}\par

This method is called whenever a system message is pending and
 the receive() method is invoked.  The default implementation dispatches
 to the handle_chat() and sys_() methods.
\par

{\b virtual void sys_set_session_desc(DPSESSIONDESC2 &desc);\line
virtual void sys_host ();\line
virtual void sys_no_session ();\line
virtual void sys_newplayer (DPID player, LPCSTR short_name, LPCSTR long_name,
 LPVOID data, DWORD size, DPID pgroup, DWORD _flags);\line
virtual void sys_delplayer (DPID player, DWORD _flags);\line
virtual void sys_set_player_name (DPID player, LPCSTR short_name, LPCSTR long_name);\line
virtual void sys_set_player_data (DPID player, LPVOID data, DWORD size);}\par

These methods are invoked by the default implementation of handle_sysmsg().
\par

\line{\b Enumeration methods}\par

{\b virtual void enum_providers();}\par

This method enumerates all service providers on the system, invoking
 the handle_enum_provider() method for each.
\par

{\b virtual void enum_sessions(DWORD timeout=5000);}\par

This method enumerates all sessions on the current service provider
 with the application guid, invoking the handle_enum_session()
 method for each.
\par

{\b virtual int handle_enum_provider(LPGUID _guid, LPSTR _desc,
 DWORD _majver, DWORD _minver);\line
virtual int handle_enum_session(LPCDPSESSIONDESC2 _session,
 LPDWORD _timeout, DWORD _flags);}\par

These methods are invoked by enum_sessions()/enum_providers() and
 should be overridden by the application to receive enumeration callbacks.
 Return 1 to continue the enumeration, 0 to stop.
\par

\line{\b Utility methods}\par

{\b int is_host() const;}\par

Tests the {\i TURNER_FLAGS_HOST} bit of the flags member variable.
\par

{\b int is_active () const;}\par

Tests the {\i TURNER_FLAGS_OPEN} bit of the flags member variables.
\par

{\b int is_valid () const;}\par

Tests if the pIDP is allocated.
\par

{\b void set_flags(dword f);}\par

Sets the flags member.  Should be or'd or and'd with the
 current flags member.
\par

{\b void set_async(BOOL on);\line
void set_sendcomplete(BOOL on);}\par

Turns on or off the send flags in sendfl.
\par

{\b void set_player_id(DPID id);}\par

Overrides the playerid value for use when a 0 is passed to
 the 'from' parameter of the send methods.
\par

{\b int set_max_players(int _players);\line
int set_user(DWORD user1, DWORD user2, DWORD user3, DWORD user4);\line
int set_session_name(char *_name);\line
int set_password(char *_passwd);}\par

Sets the given value into the session description.  Returns the
 DP result code.
\par

{\b int get_caps(LPDPCAPS caps, DWORD _flags=0);}\par

Returns capabilities for either non-guaranteed messaging if _flags is 0
 or guaranteed message if _flags is set to {\i DPGETCAPS_GUARANTEED}.
 Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b int get_player_caps(DPID player, LPDPCAPS caps, DWORD _flags=0);}\par

Gets caps for a specific player for either non-guaranteed or guaranteed
 messaging.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b int get_send_message_queue(DPID from, DPID to, LPDWORD nmsgs, LPDWORD nbytes);\line
int get_receive_message_queue(DPID from, DPID to, LPDWORD nmsgs, LPDWORD nbytes);}\par

Returns information about the current sent or receieve queue.  If 'from'
 and/or 'to' is 0, then all such ids are used to determine the result.
 Returns the DP result code.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
TurnerNetwork                                                             ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_TURNER_NETWORK}
${\footnote TurnerNetwork Class}
K{\footnote
 TurnerNetwork;
 TurnerNetwork, connect_game;
 TurnerNetwork, create_group;
 TurnerNetwork, destroy_group;
 TurnerNetwork, set_group_name;
 TurnerNetwork, set_group_data;
 TurnerNetwork, set_group_owner;
 TurnerNetwork, join_group;
 TurnerNetwork, leave_group;
 TurnerNetwork, add_group;
 TurnerNetwork, remove_group;
 TurnerNetwork, send_ex;
 TurnerNetwork, send_guaranteed_ex;
 TurnerNetwork, broadcast_ex;
 TurnerNetwork, broadcast_guaranteed_ex;
 TurnerNetwork, handle_sysmsg;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_newgroup;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_delgroup;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_set_group_name;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_set_group_data;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_set_group_owner;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_add_player_to_group;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_remove_player_from_group;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_add_group_to_group;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_remove_group_from_group;
 TurnerNetwork, sys_send_complete}
+{\footnote BW_PG_C}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Turner}\line\fs32 TurnerNetwork Class}\par\pard\sb100

{\scaps\cf4 CHANGED}\line
This adds group functionality and advanced sending options to the
 TurnerClassic interface.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

{\b TurnerNetwork}\par
A advanced network connection/management class.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include <turner.hpp>
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb\b TurnerClassic}{\v PG_TURNER_CLASSIC}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b TurnerNetwork (GUID _guid, const char *_name, int _players,
 DWORD sflags=TURNER_DPSESSION_FLAGS);}\par

Initializes the network object with the provided GUID, session name,
 maximum number of players, and session flags ({\i DPSESSION_}).
\par

{\b TurnerNetwork (GUID _guid, const char *_name, int _players,
 const char *_passwd, DWORD sflags=TURNER_DPSESSION_FLAGS);}\par

Initializes the network object with the provided GUID, session name,
 maximum number of players, session password, and session
 flags ({\i DPSESSION_}).
\par

The 'guid' used by the constructor is an application GUID which
 must be unique to each different product.  If multiple products
 are to interact via multiplayer, they would have to share the
 same guid but must process all the same messages and share the
 same interpretation of the player and session structures.  To
 prevent previous revisions of a product from being visible to
 a new version, update the GUID (increment the last byte will
 usually work).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

Same as {\uldb\b TurnerClassic}{\v PG_TURNER_CLASSIC}.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

Same as {\uldb\b TurnerClassic}{\v PG_TURNER_CLASSIC}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual int connect_game (GUID guid);}\par

Connects to an existing game on the selected service provider.
 The GUID parameter identifies the game, and must come from the
 list of available sessions on the selected provider.  This list
 can be obtained through the enum_sessions() routine.  During the
 connection, existing players are enumerated to the sys_newplayer()
 method and existing groups are enumberated to the sys_newgroup() method.
 Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual DPID create_group (const char *short_name, const char *long_name,
 LPVOID data=0, DWORD size=0, DWORD _flags=0);}\par

Creates a new group with the given handle, full name, and optional data.
 The _flags member can be set to 0 for a normal group, {\i DPGROUP_HIDDEN}
 for hidden groups, and {\i DPGROUP_STAGINGAREA} for a staging area.
 Returns the group id.
\par

{\b virtual void destroy_group (DPID group);}\par

Destroys a group.
\par

{\b virtual int set_group_name(DPID group,
 const char *short_name, const char *long_name, DWORD _flags=0);}\par

Sets an existing's group handle and full name.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int set_group_data(DPID group, LPVOID data,
 DWORD size, DWORD _flags=0);}\par

Sets an existing's group data.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int set_group_owner(DPID group, DPID owner);}\par

Changes a group's owner.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int join_group  (DPID group, DPID player);}\par

Adds a player to a group.  If player is 0, then the value
 of the playerid variable is used.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int leave_group (DPID group, DPID player);}\par

Removes a player from a group.  If player is 0, then the value
 of the playerid variable is used.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int add_group (DPID pgroup, DPID group);}\par

Adds a group to a parent group.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int remove_group (DPID pgroup, DPID group);}\par

Removes a group from a parent group.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int send_ex (DPID from, DPID to, LPVOID data, DWORD size,
 DWORD priority, DWORD timeout, LPVOID context=0, LPDWORD msgid=0);\line
virtual int send_guaranteed_ex (DPID from, DPID to, LPVOID data, DWORD size,
 DWORD priority, DWORD timeout, LPVOID context=0, LPDWORD msgid=0);}\par

Sends a message to a player, group, or DPID_SERVERPLAYER.  The 'from'
 id must be a local player or 0 which indicates the last locally created
 player id ('playerid' member).  If the second version is used, the
 message is sent guaranteed.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual int broadcast_ex (DPID from, LPVOID data, DWORD size,
 DWORD priority, DWORD timeout, LPVOID context=0, LPDWORD msgid=0);\line
virtual int broadcast_guaranteed_ex (DPID from, LPVOID data, DWORD size,
 DWORD priority, DWORD timeout, LPVOID context=0, LPDWORD msgid=0);}\par

Broadcasts a message to all players.  The 'from' id must be a local
 player or 0 which indicates the last locally created player id
 ('playerid' member).  If the second version is used, the message
 is sent guaranteed.  Returns the DP result code.
\par

{\b virtual void handle_sysmsg (DPID to, DPMSG_GENERIC *msg, DWORD size);}\par

This method is called whenever a system message is pending and
 the receive() method is invoked.  The default implementation dispatches
 to the handle_chat() and sys_() methods including the new
 group messages.
\par

{\b virtual void sys_newgroup  (DPID group, LPCSTR short_name, LPCSTR long_name,
 LPVOID data, DWORD size,  DPID pgroup, DWORD _flags);\line
virtual void sys_delgroup  (DPID group, DWORD _flags);\line
virtual void sys_set_group_name (DPID group, LPCSTR short_name, LPCSTR long_name);\line
virtual void sys_set_group_data (DPID group, LPVOID data, DWORD size);\line
virtual void sys_set_group_owner (DPID group, DPID newowner, DPID oldowner);\line
virtual void sys_add_player_to_group (DPID group, DPID player);\line
virtual void sys_remove_player_from_group (DPID group, DPID player);\line
virtual void sys_add_group_to_group (DPID parent, DPID group);\line
virtual void sys_remove_group_from_group (DPID parent, DPID group);\line
virtual void sys_send_complete (DPID from, DPID to,
 LPVOID context, DWORD msgid, DWORD sendtime);}\par

These methods are invoked by the default implementation of handle_sysmsg().
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
TurnerNetworkUI Class                                                     ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_TURNER_NETWORKUI}
${\footnote TurnerNetworkUI Class}
K{\footnote
 TurnerNetworkUI;
 TurnerNetworkUI, connect;
 TurnerNetworkUI, get_provider;
 TurnerNetworkUI, create_or_join;
 TurnerNetworkUI, select_session}
+{\footnote BW_PG_C}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Turner}\line\fs32 TurnerNetworkUI Class}\par\pard\sb100

{\scaps\cf4 CHANGED}\line
The {\b TurnerNetworkUI} class provides a simple method of initializing
 a {\b TurnerClassic} object.  This class uses a series of dialogs
 and DirectPlay calls to allow a user to connect to any existing
 session, or create a new session on any available service providers.
\par

Example dialogs are specified in the Tester's resource.rc resource script.
 The {\i IDD_MAXNETWORK_Q_CREATE} dialog is the creation or join
 dialog with controls identified by {\i IDC_MAXNETWORK_CREATE}
 and {\i IDC_MAXNETWORK_CONNECT}.  The {\i IDD_MAXNETWORK_CHOOSEPROVIDER}
 and {\i IDD_MAXNETWORK_SELSESSION} dialogs are the service provider
 and select sessions dialogs with the listbox are set to
 the {\i IDC_MAXNETWORK_LIST1} id.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

{\b TurnerNetworkUI}\par
A simple interface to initialize a TurnerClassic object.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include <turner.hpp>
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

None
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b TurnerNetworkUI  (HWND hwnd, TurnerClassic *net, int _max_sessions = 32,
 dword _timeout = 5000);}\par

Initialize the specified TurnerNetworkUI object.  The HWND
 of the application window must be specified, maximum number of
 sessions, and the session enumerate timeout.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

None
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

{\b int connect ()}\par

Establish the connection, walking through all neccessary steps.
 If desired, each step may be performed separately through the
 other member functions.  This member returns whether or not
 a network connection was established.  Returns non-zero if
 successful.
\par

{\b int get_provider ()}\par

Get the user's preference for service providers, and initialize the
 {\b TurnerClassic} object to use the selected provider.  If no
 provider is selected, return FALSE.
\par

{\b int create_or_join ()}\par

Ask whether to create a new session or join an existing one.
 Returns 1 for connect, 2 for create, and -1 for abort.

\par
{\b int select_session ()}\par

Select a session on the currently chosen provider.  A list is presented
 to the user.  If an item is chosen from the list, the session is
 connected to.  Otherwise, FALSE is returned.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

This simple code fragment shows how to use a {\b TurnerNetworkUI}
 object to initialize a {\b TurnerClassic} object.
\par

{\f2
extern TurnerClassic net;\line
extern HWND hWnd;\line
TurnerNetworkUI ui (hWnd, &net);\par
if (ui.connect())\line
\{\line
\tab // Connection established\line
\}\line
else\line
\{\line
\tab // Solo play\line
\}\line
}
\par

\pard\page

{\comment °±² eof - turner.rtf ²±° }
}
