{\rtf1
{\comment
ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ

                             MythOS Master Help

                      Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT Version

   Copyright (c) 1994-1999 by Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 THE AUTHORS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE CORRECTNESS
 OF THIS CODE OR ANY DERIVATIVE WORKS WHICH INCORPORATE IT.  THE AUTHORS
 PROVIDE THE CODE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS AND EXPLICITLY DISCLAIM ANY
 LIABILITY, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL AND INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FOR ERRORS,
 OMISSIONS, AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN THE CODE.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

                        http://www.mythos-engine.org/

ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ
}

{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss Arial;
\f1\froman Times New Roman;
\f2\fmodern Courier New;
\f3\fswiss MS Sans Serif;
\f4\froman MS Serif;
}
\deff1
\fs21

{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
}

{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                                   Misc.

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Notice                                                                    ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote NOTICE}
${\footnote Notice}
+{\footnote BW_0}
{\b\fs32\f0 MythOS\'99 Guides}\par\pard\sb100

Original issue:  September 1995
\par

Based on the DOS version originally issued:  December 1994
\par

Copyright (c) 1994-1999 by Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.
\par

{\i
 This file and all associated files are subject to the terms of the
 MIT License.   They remain the property of the authors: Dan Higdon, 
 Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn.  See LICENSE.TXT in the distribution 
 for a copy of this license.
\par

 THE AUTHORS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE CORRECTNESS
 OF THIS CODE OR ANY DERIVATIVE WORKS WHICH INCORPORATE IT.  THE AUTHORS
 PROVIDE THE CODE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS AND EXPLICITLY DISCLAIM ANY
 LIABILITY, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL AND INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FOR ERRORS,
 OMISSIONS, AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN THE CODE.
}
\par

http://www.mythos-engine.org/
\par

Bug reports, comments, and suggestions should be e-mailed to
 mythos@mythos-engine.org.
\par

MythOS is a trademark of Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.
\par

Microsoft Windows, Windows 95, Windows 98, and Windows NT are
 Copyright (c) 1985-1999 by Microsoft Corp.
\par

DirectX, DirectDraw, Direct3D, DirectSound, DirectPlay, DirectInput,
 DirectShow, and DirectMusic are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corp.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
NOT YET DOCUMENTED                                                        ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
#{\footnote NYD}
${\footnote !!!}
\par
{\b\fs32\cf4 Not Yet Documented}

\pard\page



{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                            Programmer's Guide

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
About this guide                                                          ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_ABOUT}
${\footnote About the Programmer's Guide}
+{\footnote BW_PG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide}\line\fs32 About this guide}\par\pard\sb100

This document is intended to describe the libraries of routines
 and objects available in the MythOS\'99 collection of software for
 Windows 95/98/NT.  MythOS is intended to provide a robust set of
 tools for the rapid development of high-performance,
 high-quality entertainment/multi-media software on the PC.  This
 manual assumes knowledge of C, C++, and some x86 Assembly as
 well as basic knowledge of Windows 32-bit application
 programming and the Win32 API.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Organization}\par

This guide is divided into the following sections:
\par

{\uldb Overview}{\v PG_OVERVIEW} of MythOS -- Contains the introduction
 to the guide, the components available, and the intended uses of the
 libraries in the MythOS collection.
\par

{\i\uldb System}{\v PG_SYSTEM_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the MythOS
 system and library management class.
\par

{\i\uldb Ivory}{\v PG_IVORY_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the Charybdis
 memory-management system.
\par

{\i\uldb XFile}{\v PG_XFILE_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the Charybdis file
 system.
\par

{\i\uldb Chronos}{\v PG_CHRONOS_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the Charybdis timer
 system.
\par

{\i\uldb Bozo}{\v PG_BOZO_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the multi-threading kernel
 library.
\par

{\i\uldb Max}{\v PG_MAX_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the arbitrary event
 processing system.
\par

{\i\uldb Felix}{\v PG_FELIX_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the fixed-point
 support library.
\par

{\i\uldb Van Gogh}{\v PG_VNGO_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the 2D graphics
 output library.
\par

{\i\uldb Escher}{\v PG_ESCH_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the 3D graphics
 library
\par

{\i\uldb Gutenberg}{\v PG_GBERG_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the font system.
\par

{\i\uldb Turner}{\v PG_TURNER_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the network interface.
\par

{\i\uldb Newton}{\v PG_NEWTON_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the physics system.
\par

{\i\uldb Bach}{\v PG_BACH_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the sound system.
\par

{\i\uldb Spielberg}{\v PG_SBERG_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the animation/movie player.
\par

{\i\uldb Pane}{\v PG_PANE_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the GUI helper library.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Conventions}\par

Certain conventions are used through-out the manual for easy identification
 of the material discussed:
\par

{\b Bold} is used for class names, data declaration, routine
 declaration, and keywords.
\par

{\i Italics} is used to denote constants and component names.
\par

{\f2 Monowidth font} denotes sample source code.
\par

Each library is described in detail by a dedicated section which
 includes a feature list and description of all routines and
 objects contained within the library.
\par

For C-style interfaces, the following information is provided:
\par

\tab Synopsis\line
\tab Functions\line
\tab Example (optional)\line
\tab Constants (optional)\line
\par

For C++-style interfaces, the following information is provided
 for each object:
\par

\tab Name\line
\tab Synopsis\line
\tab Base Classes\line
\tab Constructors\line
\tab Member Data\line
\tab Member Function\line
\tab Constants (optional)\line
\tab Example (optional)\line
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_PG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

The MythOS\'99 collection provides programmers of
 entertainment/multi-media software with a wide array of useful
 tools which can be used in relative isolation or combined with
 other components to form a base technology for engine
 development.
\par

This collection of tools is designed for use with Microsoft
 Visual C/C++ v6.x and the Windows 95/98/NT environment.  The libraries
 were developed using Microsoft Visual C/C++ version 6.0 and
 Microsoft's MASM Assembler version 6.14. Microsoft's Program
 Maintenance Utility Version 1.20 was used for the makefiles.  Some
 of the components may require the DirectX SDK V6.1 and the DirectX
 Media V6 SDK.
\par

Because of the nature of the Windows environment, a number of
 application-side initialization steps are required.  Therefore,
 the Win32 version of MythOS includes an application framework
 called {\i SimGine}  This framework includes all needed
 initialization code and demonstrates the intended use of the
 library components.  Example code in the MythOS distribution
 demonstrates both the use of {\i SimGine} and direct initialization
 of the MythOS components.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Audience}\par

This guide is intended for use by programmers who have a working
 understanding of C and C++ programming, Windows 32-bit
 programming and the Win32 API, and some x86 Assembly.  Certain
 libraries may assume more specialized knowledge.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

The major features of the MythOS collection are:
\par

High-performance, high-quality 2D and 3D graphics engine, including font
 support.
\par

Supports high-resolution 8- and 15/16-bit devices using Windows WinG DIB,
 DirectDraw\'ae, and Direct3D\'ae as well as selected proprietary 3D APIs for
 direct 3D hardware support.
\par

Provides support for Gouraud-shaded, perspectively texture-mapped output,
 including specular effects at real-time speeds.
\par

Supports hierarchical polygonal models, as well as specialized draw entities
 for sprites, polygonal terrain, particle systems, and others.
\par

Easily extendible design.
\par

Custom memory-management functions for high-performance malloc-style, arena,
 and handle-based memory allocation.
\par

Non-preemptive, multi-threaded, real-time kernel.
\par

Abstract event processing system, including support for keyboard, mouse, and
 joysticks using the Win32 or DirectInput\'ae interfaces.
\par

Precision timer services.
\par

File system for quick development of data control and processing routines
 including support for IFF and a variety of bitmap formats.
\par

Network interface wrapper for DirectPlay\'ae.
\par

Sound library wrapper for DirectSound\'ae including support for various
 sample file formats and direct-from-disk file streaming.
\par

Animation/movie player library including support for
 ActiveMovie/DirectShow\'ae.
\par

A Newtonian-physics simulation system for velocity and acceleration effects.
\par

Convenient and powerful supporting utilities and tools (see
 {\uldb User's Guide}{\v UG_ABOUT} for more information on these utilities).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Components}\par

Each of the components of the MythOS system were designed to
 be self-contained.  They rely on other components for specific
 functions, but do not utilize special knowledge beyond that
 documented for the supporting component.  This section describes
 the libraries, required supporting components, and intended uses:
\par

{\i\uldb System}{\v PG_SYSTEM_OVERVIEW}\par

The MythOS system class provides system and library controls
 for integration of the components of the MythOS collection.
 Initialization and termination of the components is provided, as
 well as environment controls and diagnostics.
\par

{\i\uldb Ivory}{\v PG_IVORY_OVERVIEW}\par

{\i Ivory} is a custom memory management system which provides
 standard memory allocation, handle-based caching, and 'arena'
 allocation to provide for the kinds of memory needed by
 entertainment software.  This library uses Win32 allocation services to
 allocate the kinds of memory needed for the memory system.  This
 library includes both a standard C-style interface and C++
 new/delete operators.
\par

{\i\uldb XFile}{\v PG_XFILE_OVERVIEW}\par

A C and C++ file system is implemented in {\i XFile} to provide
 minimal overhead block-i/o routines, as well as processing of
 complex file formats.  This library uses standard Windows file
 services to implement the file i/o operations and uses the
 new/delete operators for memory allocation to allow use with and
 without the {\i Ivory} memory manager.
\par

{\i\uldb Chronos}{\v PG_CHRONOS_OVERVIEW}\par

Real-time software requires high-resolution timer services as
 well as call-back functionality for real-time processing.
 Support for both are provided by this library.
\par

{\i\uldb Bozo}{\v PG_BOZO_OVERVIEW}\par

Multi-threading execution is a powerful technique for real-time
 applications and this library provides non-preemptive
 task-switching with a single memory image.  Support for
 semaphores and other inter-thread synchronization is provided
 for multi-tasking development.
\par

{\i\uldb Max}{\v PG_MAX_OVERVIEW}\par

Events encapsulate data into discrete packages for processing by
 applications.  {\i Max} provides an abstract event processing system
 for user-input from keyboards or other input devices.
\par

{\i\uldb Felix}{\v PG_FELIX_OVERVIEW}\par

Floating-point processing is not well supported across all
 platforms, so support for fixed-point processing is required.
 {\i Felix} provides high-performance fixed-point math operations
 including advanced functions like square-root and cosine/sine.
\par

{\i\uldb Van Gogh}{\v PG_VNGO_OVERVIEW}\par

Graphics device support is provided by the {\i Van Gogh} library for
 output of lines and images, as well as more complicated 2D
 primitives to PC video devices.  Output to virtual screens as
 well as Windows DIB and DirectDraw surfaces at various resolutions
 and color depths is included.  Extensive support for 3D is included
 for color models, shaded polygonal primitives, Z-buffering, and
 texture-mapping.  {\i XFile} is used to provide file i/o for palette
 data.
\par

{\i\uldb Escher}{\v PG_ESCH_OVERVIEW}\par

Display of 3D models and other 3D objects is performed by
 {\i Escher}, utilizing the output capabilities of {\i Van Gogh}, the math
 functions of {\i Felix}, and much of the memory-management provided
 by {\i Ivory}.  Support for triangular meshes and terrain is
 provided, along with other drawable implementations.  {\i XFile} is
 used to provide file i/o for object and model data.
\par

{\i\uldb Gutenberg}{\v PG_GBERG_OVERVIEW}\par

Text output with fonts is provided by the {\i Gutenberg} library for
 use with {\i Van Gogh} for final output.  Support for external text
 resources is also provided for easy alteration and/or
 translation of displayed strings.  {\i XFile} is used to provide
 file i/o for font and text data.
\par

{\i\uldb Turner}{\v PG_TURNER_OVERVIEW}\par

A standard interface to the network is provided by the {\i Turner}
 library which makes use of the Microsoft DirectPlay API.
\par

{\i\uldb Newton}{\v PG_NEWTON_OVERVIEW}\par

A standard Newtonian physics simulation library is provided by the
 {\i Newton} library.
\par

{\i\uldb Bach}{\v PG_BACH_OVERVIEW}\par

C++ sound library to provide a high-level inteface for the Microsoft
 DirectSound API.
\par

{\i\uldb Spielberg}{\v PG_SBERG_OVERVIEW}\par

Mulitimedia animation/movie player library with support for the Microsoft
 ActiveMovie/DirectShow API.
\par

{\i\uldb Pane}{\v PG_PANE_OVERVIEW}\par

Graphical user interface helper library with components for use with
 {\i Van Gogh} and {\i Max}.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Future Work}\par

The MythOS 95 library set represents a technology base started in 1994
 for use in Charybdis' first title.  We had plans for the development
 of a new 2.0 version of the library to provide a major rewrite of the
 graphics libraries (Van Gogh and Escher) to update for the shift
 to 3D graphics consumer hardware from software-based rendering
 on 486 class computers.  This version was to be called "MythOS 98".
\par

We are not making any commitments for a future version, but there are
 a number of plans which may or may not materialize.  Any such work
 will take place on a part-time basis and would hopefully be released
 using the same Open Source license.  The new version would be a major
 rewrite and would not be compatable with MythOS 95.
\par

\par

\pard\page



{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                               User's Guide

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
About this guide                                                          ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote UG_ABOUT}
${\footnote About the User's Guide}
+{\footnote BW_UG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps User's Guide}\line\fs32 About this guide}\par\pard\sb100

This guide is intended to describe the utilities supplied for use with the
 MythOS\'99 collection of software tools.  MythOS is intended to provide
 a robust set of tools for the rapid development of high-performance,
 high-quality entertainment/multi-media software on the PC.  This manual
 assumes knowledge of command-line execution and some sections assume
 knowledge of specific applications.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Organization}\par

This guide is divided into the following sections:
\par

{\uldb Overview}{\v UG_OVERVIEW} of MythOS -- Contains the introduction
 to the guide, the components available, and the intended uses of the
 utilities in the MythOS collection.
\par

{\i\uldb XFile}{\v UG_XFILE_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the Charybdis file
 system utilities.
\par

{\i\uldb Max}{\v UG_MAX_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the event utilities.
\par

{\i\uldb Van Gogh}{\v UG_VNGO_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the 2D graphic
 system utilities.
\par

{\i\uldb Escher}{\v UG_ESCH_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the 3D graphics
 system utilities and exporter.
\par

{\i\uldb Gutenberg}{\v UG_GBERG_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the font system
 conversion utilities.
\par

{\uldb Utilities}{\v UG_UTIL_OVERVIEW} -- Describes the additional utility
 programs provided.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Conventions}\par

Certain conventions are used through-out the manual for easy identification
 of the material discussed:
\par

{\b Bold} is used for command descriptions and program names.
\par

{\i Italics} is used to denote component names.
\par

{\f2 Monowidth font} denotes keyboard input.
\par

Each section includes a feature list and information about future directions.
\par

The majority of the utilities are designed for use from the command line
 and include the following standard sections:
\par

\tab Usage\line
\tab Options\line
\tab Example\line
\tab Other information needed to utilize the tool
\line
\par

Some of the utilities supplied are add-on modules or stand-alone applications
 and are documented as needed.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote UG_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_UG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps User's Guide}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

The MythOS\'99 collection provides developers of entertainment
 and multi-media software with a wide array of useful tools which can be
 used to augment software development.
\par

This collection of tools is designed for use from the an MS-DOS Box under
 Windows 9x/NT, as a native Win32 application, or from within specific
 applications.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Audience}\par

This guide is intended for developers who have a working
 understanding of Windows 95/98/NT and the intended application of the
 MythOS software.  Some components require application specific
 knowledge.  No knowledge of C/C++/Assembly programming is
 assumed for this guide.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

The major tools of the MythOS collection are:
\par

3D data exporter for 3D Studio\'ae Release 4 and 3D viewer for polygonal
 models and associated materials, cameras, and lights.
\par

Terrain data editor for polygonal-based terrain system.
\par

Format converters for bitmaps and other data sets.
\par

Texture librarian for manipulating exported texture data.
\par

Interactive palette generation tool for creation of high-quality shading
 palettes for application-specific needs.
\par

Data compilers for file and font systems (including TrueType font capture
 utility).
\par

Event compiler for easy redefinition of user inputs for easier product
 development and tuning.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Components}\par

Each of the components of the MythOS system require different
 utilities and tools.  This section describes the tools
 associated with each library:
\par

{\i\uldb XFile}{\v UG_XFILE_OVERVIEW}\par

The tools associated with the {\i XFile} library are for the
 creation, examination, and maintenance of data file formats. The
 Interchange File Format from Electronic Arts is used as the
 basic file format in MythOS and a compiler and directory
 utility is included for working with these files.
\par

{\i\uldb Max}{\v UG_MAX_OVERVIEW}\par

Application defined events in {\i Max} may have any number of
 associated definitions or triggers.  These are defined via a
 standard file format created by an event compiler.
\par

{\i\uldb Van Gogh}{\v UG_VNGO_OVERVIEW}\par

The quality of the color palette plays an extremely important
 role for the display of 2D primitives, particularly shaded
 primitives.  Palette conversion and creation utilities are
 included for this purpose.
\par

{\i\uldb Escher}{\v UG_ESCH_OVERVIEW}\par

3D datasets may be created in any number of applications, and
 providing a completely full-featured editor would be a
 significant investment.  {\i Escher} includes a data exporter for 3D
 Studio and other data conversion and examining utilities.
\par

{\i\uldb Gutenberg}{\v UG_GBERG_OVERVIEW}\par

Character font data and text strings are converted via tools
 supplied with {\i Gutenberg} into a format suitable for display or
 manipulation.
\par

{\i\uldb Utilities}{\v UG_UTIL_OVERVIEW}\par

Bitmap image recoloring tool for using bitmaps with specific {\i Van
 Gogh} palettes.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Future Work}\par

The collection of tools will expand as the need arises, and the
 current tools will be refined as well.  Additional components
 may require other utilities and tools.  A number of the command
 line tools will be converted to true Win32 applications for
 interactive use.
\par

\pard\page

{\comment °±² eof - mythos.rtf ²±° }
}
