{\rtf1
{\comment
ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ

                              S I M   G I N E

                     A Simluator Framework for MythOS(tm)

                      Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT Version

   Copyright (c) 1997-1999 by Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 This file and all associated files are subject to the terms of the
 GNU Lesser General Public License version 2 as published by the
 Free Software Foundation (http://www.gnu.org).   They remain the
 property of the authors: Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn.
 See LICENSE.TXT in the distribution for a copy of this license.

 THE AUTHORS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE CORRECTNESS
 OF THIS CODE OR ANY DERIVATIVE WORKS WHICH INCORPORATE IT.  THE AUTHORS
 PROVIDE THE CODE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS AND EXPLICITLY DISCLAIMS ANY
 LIABILITY, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL AND INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FOR ERRORS,
 OMISSIONS, AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN THE CODE.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

                        http://www.mythos-engine.org/

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 SimGine is a component of the MythOS(tm) collection.

 MythOS is a trademark of Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 simgine.rtf

ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ
}

{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss Arial;
\f1\froman Times New Roman;
\f2\fmodern Courier New;
\f3\fswiss MS Sans Serif;
\f4\froman MS Serif;
}
\deff1
\fs21

{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
About this guide                                                          ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_ABOUT}
${\footnote About the SimGine Framework Guide}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGine Framework Guide}\line\fs32 About this guide}\par\pard\sb100

This guide describes the {\i SimGine} C++ library which provides an advanced
 framework for developing simulation-style titles using MythOS\'99.  This
 document assumes familiarity with the MythOS libraries and Windows 32-bit
 programming using the Win32 API.  Some familiarity with MFC would also
 provide a good background for the intended use of {\i SimGine}.
\par

This library was developed as an replacement for the original {\i GameFrame}
 MythOS example, but much of the design developed from the basic concepts
 presented in that example.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGine Framework Guide}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

{\i SimGine} is a C++ framework for developing simulations and other
 titles using MythOS\'99.  Some portions of the framework would be applicable
 in any full-screen application.  {\i SimGine} includes all Windows startup
 code and some basic functionality for managing the mode of the application
 as well as a number of support classes for developing simulations.
\par

Usage of the {\i SimGine} library is best explained by an example, which is
 provided by the {\i SimGine} tester.
\par

{\cf2
Here are the basic requirements needed to develop a Windows full-screen
 game using {\i SimGine}:
\par

1) Create an instance of a {\uldb SimGine}{\v SG_SIMGINE}-derived application
 class in global data space (so that it is initialized by the
 compiler-generated stub before calling WinMain).  Override the virtual member
 init_instance() and exit_instance() to create and destroy other required
 data objects.  The base init_instance() creates the application window,
 {\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN} instance, and
 {\uldb SimAudio}{\v SG_SIMAUDIO} instance.
\par

2) During the init_instance() member of your SimGine class, create one or
 more {\uldb SimState}{\v SG_SIMSTATE}-derived classes to handle the
 individual states (or modes) of the game--usually a single screen or
 group of related screens are placed within a SimState.  Be sure to set the
 global variable Mode to the SimState you wish to start the application in.
 Drawing should be done via the SimScreen class and audio output should
 be handled by calling the SimAudio class.  A specialized SimState,
 called {\uldb SimulatorState}{\v SG_SIMULATORSTATE}, should be used as the
 base class for the state which represents the running simulation.
\par

3) Pass control between the states by using switch_to().  Pointers to
 the states should be kept in the SimGine class, but could be stored in
 global variables if needed.
\par

4) To exit the application, call SimGine::exit().
\par
}

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

C++ structure for easy creation and maintence of full-screen Windows titles.
\par

Provides centralized management for video and audio processing.
\par

Includes a model hierarchy for development of simulators in a C++
 heirarchy.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Future Work}\par

This library will be expanded as time allows to include other generic
 support classes for developing applications.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Organization}\par

The {\i SimGine} library consists of a number of classes as follows:
\par

Application Class\line
\tab {\uldb SimGine}{\v SG_SIMGINE}
\par

Support Classes\line
\tab {\uldb SimAudio}{\v SG_SIMAUDIO}\line
\tab {\uldb SimText}{\v SG_SIMTEXT}\line
\tab {\uldb SimTimeTable}{\v SG_SIMTIMETABLE}
\par

Screen Classes\line
\tab {\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN}\line
\tab {\uldb SimScreenDD}{\v SG_SIMSCREENDD}\line
\tab {\uldb SimScreenDIB}{\v SG_SIMSCREENDIB}\line
\tab {\uldb SimScreenD3D}{\v SG_SIMSCREEND3D}
\par

State Classes\line
\tab {\uldb SimState}{\v SG_SIMSTATE}\line
\tab {\uldb SimulatorState}{\v SG_SIMULATORSTATE}\line
\tab Simulator UI Classes\line
\tab\tab {\uldb SimUI}{\v SG_SIMUI}\line
\tab\tab {\uldb SimView}{\v SG_SIMVIEW}\line
\tab Simulator Model Classes\line
\tab\tab {\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}\line
\tab\tab {\uldb SimObject}{\v SG_SIMOBJECT}\line
\tab\tab {\uldb SimUnit}{\v SG_SIMUNIT}\line
\tab\tab {\uldb SimEquip}{\v SG_SIMEQUIP}\line
\tab\tab {\uldb SimTemp}{\v SG_SIMTEMP}\line
\tab\tab {\uldb SimOffield}{\v SG_SIMOFFIELD}
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimGine Class                                                             ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMGINE}
${\footnote SimGine Class}
K{\footnote SimGine;
SimGine, init_instance;
SimGine, run;
SimGine, step;
SimGine, exit_instance;
SimGine, exit}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimGine Class}\par\pard\sb100

{\cf4\scaps CHANGED}\line
This class controls the startup, execution, and termination of the
 application as a whole.  To use the {\i SimGine} library, an instance
 of a class derived from this base class must be created in global data
 space.  The WinMain routine provided by {\i SimGine} will then call that
 instance.
\par

The derived application class should overload init_instance() and call the
 base version of the routine.  The operation of the init_instance() base
 routine can be controlled by changing flags in the 'startup' variables
 before calling the base routine.  If the base routine succeeds (by
 returning TRUE), then perform whatever other initialization is needed
 for the application, and set the global {\b Mode} to point to your
 starting {\uldb SimState}{\v SG_SIMSTATE}-derived class instance before
 returning success.
\par

{\cf2
Note:  Only one instance of a SimGine-derived class can be created for
 an application.
}\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimGine - Application Class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simgine.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimGine();}\par

Setups up an internal pointer to this instance so that WinMain can find
 the application class instance in global data space.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b HINSTANCE hInstance;}\par

This is the instance handle for the application, set by the base
 init_instance() routine.
\par

{\b HWND hWndClient;}\par

This is the window handle for the client window created by the base
 init_instance() routine.
\par

{\b char appName[SIM_MAX_APPNAME];}\par

This is the application name used as the title of the client window and
 the name of the application instance.  It is loaded from the resource
 string table using id {\i IDS_SIM_APPNAME}.
\par

{\b LPSTR cmdLine;\line
int cmdShow}\par

These are the command line and command show bits passed in from WinMain.
\par

{\b dword startup;}\par

The base version of the init_instance() routine checks flags in this variable
 to control setup options (see {\b Startup Flags} below).
\par

{\b ushort startup_width;\line
ushort startup_height;}\par

This controls the starting Screen and client window size and defaults to
 {\i SIM_DEFAULT_WIDTH}, and {\i SIM_DEFAULT_HEIGHT}.  It is used by
 the base version of init_instance().
\par

{\b ushort startup_bitdepth;}\par

This controls the starting Screen's bitdepth and defaults to
 {\i SIM_DEFAULT_BITDEPTH}.  It can be set to 8, 15, or 16, although some
 screen implementations impose additional constraints.
\par

{\cf4\scaps NEW}\line
{\b ushort startup_nchannels;\line
ushort startup_nreserved;\line
ushort startup_nchannels3d;\line
ulong startup_drate;\line
bach_digi_fmt startup_dformat}\par

These values are passed to the SimAudio::init() routine if {\i STARTUP_AUDIO}
 is set.
\par

{\b dword startup_memsize;}\par

This controls the size of the {\i Ivory} static memory pool and defaults to
 {\i SIM_MYTHOS_MEM_SIZE}.  It is used by the base version of init_instance().
\par

{\b dword startup_arenasize;}\par

This controls the size of the {\i Escher} arena memory pool and defaults to
 {\i SIM_MYTHOS_ESCHER_ARENA_SIZE}.  It is used by the base version of
 init_instance().
\par

{\b dword startup_sortsize;}\par

This controls the size of the {\i Escher} sort memory pool and defaults to
 {\i SIM_MYTHOS_ESCHER_SORT_SIZE}.  It is used by the base version of
 init_instance().
\par

{\cf4\scaps NEW}\line
{\b char startup_target[SIM_MAX_TARGET];}\par

This string is passed to the Direct3D screen manager if a Direct3D screen
 is created.  It specifies the target device to use for multiple devices
 management.  Set to "" (which is the default) to use the primary device
 present in the system, if any.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

{\b virtual BOOL init_instance();}\par

This member is called by the WinMain routine to initialize the application.
 The base version should be called to check for other application instances,
 create the window class and client window, initialize {\b MythOS}, and
 initialize the {\b Screen} and {\b Audio} globals.
\par

{\cf2
Note: Because of issues with allocating {\i Bozo} task stack space, the
 size of the stack space set aside for BozoTasks is the compile-time value
 {\i SIM_MYTHOS_TASK_STACK_SIZE}.
}\par

{\b virtual int run();}\par

This routine processes the current {\uldb SimState}{\v SG_SIMSTATE}
 pointed to by the {\b Mode} global variable.  It calls activate(), then
 loops on pump_windows(), process_events(), render(), and display().  On
 return of a FALSE from pump_windows(), it calls deactivate() and calls
 exit_instance(), returning the return value from that routine.
\par

{\b virtual void step();}\par

This routine is called during the {\b run} member, and can be used by
 derived classes to insert special processing in the message loop.
 The primary use for this member is to step global items, like
 Network support, that do not logically live within a {\b SimState}.
 The default implementation does nothing.
\par

{\b virtual int exit_instance();}\par

This member deletes {\b Audio}, {\b Screen}, {\b Devs}, and {\b MythOS}.
 The return value of this routine is the exit code for WinMain.
\par

{\b void exit();}\par

This utility routine will cause the application to exit on a future call to
 the base version of SimState::pump_windows().  This routine should be
 called to exit the application, but control will be returned to the
 caller (unlike ExitProcess or ::exit()).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Startup Flags}\par

These defines are local to the SimGine class and control the operation of
 the base init_instance() routine:
\par

{\i STARTUP_DDRAW}\tab If this bit is set, then an instance of
 {\uldb SimScreenDD}{\v SG_SIMSCREENDD} is created for the
 {\b Screen} variable.
\par

{\i STARTUP_D3D}\tab\tab If this bit is set, then an instance of
 {\uldb SimScreenD3D}{\v SG_SIMSCREEND3D} is created for the
 {\b Screen} variable.
\par

If none of these is set, an instance of
 {\uldb SimScreenDIB}{\v SG_SIMSCREENDIB} is created.
\par

{\i STARTUP_FULLSCREEN}\tab If this bit is set, then the Screen class
 is allowed to switch video modes for full-screen (should only be cleared
 for debugging).  This is set by default.
\par

{\i STARTUP_TRUEFLIP}\tab If this bit is set, then the Screen class
 forces the video mode to use true page-flipping.
\par

{\i STARTUP_AUDIO}\tab If this bit is set, then an instance of the
 {\uldb SimAudio}{\v SG_SIMAUDIO} class is created for the {\b Audio}
 variable.  This is set by default.
\par

{\i STARTUP_DX5}\tab If this bit is set, then the DirectX version of
 the {\i Max} device class is created for {\b Devs}, otherwise the
 Win32 version is created.  This is set by default.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimAudio Class                                                            ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMAUDIO}
${\footnote SimAudio Class}
K{\footnote SimAudio;
SimAudio, init}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimAudio Class}\par\pard\sb100

{\cf4 UNDER DEVELOPMENT}
\par

This class provides a management class for sound which encapsulates sound
 sample playback, management, and control using the {\i Bach} sound library.
\par

An instance of SimAudio is created by SimGine::init_instance() and is pointed
 to by the global {\b Audio}.  If the global is zero, then audio is considered
 disabled.  Therefore all calls to Audio to should guarded by a test
 (i.e. if (Audio) Audio->xxx).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimAudio - Audio management class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simaudio.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimAudio();}\par

Initializes internal data pointers.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b BachDigital *digi}\par

Pointer to a {\i Bach} digital instance created by init().  If 3D channels
 are created, this will be a pointer to a {\b BachDigital3D} instance.
\par

{\b ulong nchannels3d;\line
BachSample3D **channels3d;}\par

For each 3D channel created (set by init()), there is an instance to a
 {\b BachSample3D} instance.
\par

{\b ulong nchannels;\line
ulong nreserved;\line
BachStaticSample **channels;}\par

For each channel created (set by init()), there is an instance to a
 {\b BachStaticSample} instance.  The 'nreserved' value is used when
 allocating a channel to indicate the number of channels that should never
 be assigned when a '-1' channel number is passed to prepare_()--therefore
 leaving channel 0 to nreserved-1 for allocation by explicit reference.
\par

{\b BachFileSample *stream;}\par

This is an instance of the streaming file class for playing digital background
 music and the like.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

{\b virtual error_codes init (ulong drate=BACH_DIGI_DRIVERRATE,
 bach_digi_fmt dfmt=BACH_DIGI_STEREO_16, ulong nchannels=SIM_AUDIO_NCHANNELS,
 ulong nreserved=SIM_AUDIO_NRESERVED, ulong n3d=SIM_AUDIO_NCHANNELS3D);}\par

Initializes the audio object, returning an error code (see {\b Error Codes}
 below).
\par

{\b virtual void release();}\par

Releases all memory and resources associated with the Audio object.  You must
 call init() before attempting to use the object after a release().
\par

{\b virtual void clear_all_sounds();}\par

Stops and releases all channels while leaving the Audio object initialized.
\par

{\b virtual int prepare_wav(const char *fname, int channel = -1);}\par

Prepares a channel by loading data from a .WAV file.  If channel is given,
 anything playing on the channel currently is stopped and released.
\par

{\b virtual void play(ulong channel, int loop=0);}\par

Starts the given channel playing with optional looping.
\par

{\b virtual void stop(ulong channel);}\par

Stops the given channel.
\par

{\b virtual int prepare_wav_stream(const char *fname);}\par

Readies a .WAV for digital streaming.
\par

{\b virtual void play_stream(int loop=0);}\par

Starts a streaming digital playback with optional looping.
\par

{\b virtual void next_stream();}\par

Moves to the next queued file for digital streaming.
\par

{\b virtual void stop_stream();}\par

Stops a streaming digital playback.
\par

{\b BachStaticSample *get_channel(ulong channel);}\par

Returns a pointer to the given channel's {\i Bach} sample.
\par

BachSample3D *get_channel3d(ulong channel)

Returns a pointer to the given 3D channel's {\i Bach} sample.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Error Codes}\par

These defines are local to the SimAudio class:
\par

{\i ERROR_NONE}\tab No error.
\par

{\i ERROR_INIT}\tab {\i Bach} init failed.
\par

{\i ERROR_NOMEMORY}\tab A memory allocation failed.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimText Class                                                             ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMTEXT}
${\footnote SimText Class}
K{\footnote SimText;
SimText, outr;
SimText, outrf;
SimText, color}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimText Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class adds resource ID support to {\i Gutenberg's} GBergText class.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimText - Text Output Class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simmisc.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb GBergText}{\v PG_GBERG_TEXTCLASS}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimText(VngoVport *vp);}\par

Constructs the text class to output to the given viewport.
\par

{\b SimText(SimScreen *scrn);}\par

Constructs the text class to output to the viewport belonging to the
 given {\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN} class instance.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb GBergText}{\v PG_GBERG_TEXTCLASS}, plus :-
\par

{\b void outr(ulong id);\line
void outr(long x, long y, ulong id);\line
void outrf(ulong id, ...);}\par

These are output routines which output a string found in the string table
 of the resource for the application.
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes color(dword fc, dword bc=VNGO_TRANSPARENT);}\par

Helper routine to set text output color for {\i Gutenberg}.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimTimeTable Class                                                        ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMTIMETABLE}
${\footnote SimTimeTable Class}
K{\footnote SimTimeTable;
SimTimeTable, add_event;
SimTimeTable, add_event_rel;
SimTimeTable, rem_event;
SimTimeTable, step;
SimTimeTable, more_events;
SimTimeTable, size_alloc;
SimTimeTable, cleanup}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGine Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimTimeTable Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class provides a handy method of delaying actions until a future time.
 Conceptually similar to a timer callback, the {\b SimTimeTable} registers
 callback functions to be called at a later time.  Unlike a timer callback,
 the {\b SimTimeTable} does not interrupt processing, but must be stepped
 by the application at an appropriate time.
\par

Some trouble has been taken to ensure that adding and dispatching elements
 in the event queue is fast and efficient.  The event queue is pre-allocated,
 and threaded into a free list.  New event records are taken from the head
 of the free list, and added to the event list.  Likewise, freeing elements
 is as simple as linking them back onto the free list.  The event queue keeps
 both a head and tail pointer, so adding events that occur "next" in the
 sequence is very efficient.  The worst case is to add an event that occurs
 right before the last event in a long event list, but even this is merely
 O(n) on the length of the list.  If profiling determines this to be a problem,
 then the whole queue can be reimplimented as a heap-based priority queue, but
 that will cause all insertions/removals to incur a O(log n) overhead.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimTimeTable - Action Scheduling Class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simgine.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimTimeTable(int size = 1024);}\par

Constructs the time table with the specified number of entries.  If this
 number is exceeded, the table will resize itself to twice its current
 size.
\par

{\b ~SimTimeTable();}\par

Destructs the time table, freeing any resources used.  Any events still
 pending will {\i not} be executed.  Use {\b SimTimeTable::more_events()} to
 determine if any events remain in the queue.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Types}\par

{\b typedef void (*callback_t) (void *);}\par

This is the type of the callback functions registered in the time table.
 All user functions must match this signature.  The parameter is specified
 in the {\b add_event} call, and should be used to pass state information
 into the callback.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

{\b void add_event(clock_t, callback_t, void *);}\par

Adds a function to be called at the given time.  The parameter is passed
 to the callback function when the time specified has passed.  Time is
 specified in milliseconds, and mirrors the time values in {\b Chronos}.
 If there aren't any spaces in the queue, this function will resize the
 queue to accommodate the new allocations.  The queue's size is doubled,
 and all existing elements are copied over (generation scavenging).  This
 can take a noticeable ammount of time for large queues, so it is wiser to
 create a queue that is large enough to begin with.  Note also that the
 queue will never shrink.
\par

{\b void add_event_rel(clock_t, callback_t, void *);}\par

The same as {\b add_event}, except that the specified time is relative
 to the current time.  For example, to schedule an event one second in
 the future, call {\b table.add_event (1000, f, p);}.
\par

{\b void rem_event(callback_t, void *, bool = true);}\par

Removes a specified event from the queue.  Either or both of the pointers
 may be NULL, indicating a "don't care" condition.  The bool parameter controls
 whether all matching elements are removed (true), or only the first (false).
 This function is useful for removing events relating to a particular object
 ({\b table.rem_event (0, obj_ptr);}) or a particular action
 ({\b table.rem_event (explode, 0);}).
\par

{\b void step();}\par

This member causes the events in the queue to be checked for elegibility
 and executed when appropriate.  All events that should occur before or
 on {\b chronos_time_now()} are called with the parameters specified, and
 then they are removed from the queue.  For a recurring event, have the
 callback function re-register itself for a future time.  Note that actions
 entered with a time of 0 will execute on the next {\b step()}.  This fact
 may be useful for delaying actions for only one frame.
\par

{\b bool more_events() const;}\par

Returns whether or not there are any events pending in the queue.  This is
 a very fast operation.
\par

{\b void size_alloc (int);}\par

Sets the size of the time table queue.  This number is just the initial
 size, as {\b add_event()} will resize the queue if needed.  Calling this
 function with a number smaller than the current queue size has no effect.
 There is currently no way to shrink the queue without destroying the time
 table, because that would open the possibility of resizing the queue too
 small for the current set of events.
\par

{\b void cleanup();}\par

Destroys the queue, freeing all resources associated with it.  This member is
 usually only called by the destructor, but can be used to manually clear
 and resize the queue.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimScreen Class                                                           ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMSCREEN}
${\footnote SimScreen Class}
K{\footnote SimScreen;
SimScreen, init;
SimScreen, release;
SimScreen, create_subviewport;
SimScreen, lock;
SimScreen, unlock;
SimScreen, clear;
SimScreen, flip;
SimScreen, reinit;
SimScreen, load_palette;
SimScreen, set_palette;
SimScreen, set_brightness;
SimScreen, get_brightness;
SimScreen, invalidate;
SimScreen, capture}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimScreen Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class provides a management class for video by encapsulating a
 {\i Van Gogh} viewport, palette, and other control code.  The viewport
 contained within a instance of SimScreen is the full-screen area onto
 which the application is displaying.
\par

An instance of SimScreen is created by SimGine::init_instance() and is
 pointed to by the global variable {\b Screen}.  It should be non-zero
 in all cases except before init_instance() and after exit_instance().
 Failure to create a SimScreen class will result in a failure code from
 init_instance().
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimScreen - Abstract Video Management Class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simscrn.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimScreen();}\par

Clears pointers.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b ushort width;\line
ushort height;}\par

Width and height of the screen instance (and associated viewport).
\par

{\b ushort bit_depth}\par

Bit-depth of the screen instance (and associated viewport).
\par

{\b ushort na;}\par

Padding.
\par

{\b float brightness;}\par

Palette brightness boost factor (0.0 means no boost, while a negative value
 dims the colors and a positive value brightens the colors).
\par

{\b VngoVport *gvport;}\par

Points to the viewport for the screen.  This pointer can be used to draw
directly onto the screen
\par

{\cf2
Note:  Changes to this viewport will not be visible until flip() has been
 called. And lock() should be called before drawing operations and unlock()
 should be called if lock() returns a non-locked result afterwards.
}\par

{\b VngoPal *pal;}\par

Points to the palette for the screen.
\par

{\b VngoScreenManager *vgs;}\par

Points to the screen manager instance.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

{\b virtual error_codes init (ushort w, ushort h,
 ushort bd = 16, dword flags=FULLSCREEN);}\par

Initializes the screen instance with the given width, height, bit-depth,
 and control flags (see {\b Control Flags} below).  This routine is
 overloaded by the derived SimScreen classes, but this base routine
 is still called.  An error code is returned (see {\b Error Codes} below).
\par

{\cf2
Note:  Some devices (notiably DirectDraw and Direct3D) can support both
 15- and 16-bit modes interchangably, depending upon the hardware.
 Therefore, the init() routines for these try the bit-depth supplied
 and if the screen manager responds with an appopriate error, the other
 bit-depth is tried.  If successful, the bit_depth member will reflect
 the changed bit-depth and should therefore be used to trigger any
 bit-depth specific code (alternatively, the {\i VNGO_8BIT}, {\i VNGO_15BIT},
 and {\i VNGO_16BIT} flags can be checked for in the VngoPal palette
 instance created by init()).
}\par

{\b virtual void release();}\par

Releases any associated viewport, palette, and screen manager instance,
 effectively closing the device.  This is called by the destructor.
\par

{\b virtual VngoVport *create_subviewport(VngoRect &screen_rect, dword flags) = 0;}\par

Creates a viewport that shares the physical memory of the main viewport at
 the location given in screen coordinates in 'screen_rect'.  This is useful
 since clipping is performed against viewport boundaries and to create
 render viewports that are lcoated on the screen without the need to copy
 the data onto the main viewport before displaying. The 'flags' variable is
 passed to the viewport constructor being created.
\par

{\b virtual long lock ();}\par

This locks the viewport's memory.  The memory must be locked before performing
 draw operations.  It returns 1 if the surface was already locked, 0 if not
 locked before this call, or -1 if an error occurred.
\par

{\b virtual int unlock ();}\par

This unlocks the viewport's memory.
\par

{\b void clear ();}\par

Clears the screen to the background color (RGB: 0,0,0).
\par

{\b void reinit ();}\par

Reinitializes the screen device.
\par

{\b void flip ();}\par

This 'flips' the screen surface so that changes to the viewport are made
 visible to the user.  This prevents the user from seeing drawing in
 progress for the next frame.
\par

{\b BOOL load_palette (const char *fname, const char *name, BOOL freeold=TRUE);}\par

This loads a new palette from the IFF format file called 'fname'.  If
 'name' is non-zero, the palette name is searched for in the IFF file.
 If freeold is TRUE, then any old palette data is freed before loading
 the new palette.
\par

{\b BOOL set_palette (VngoPal *p, BOOL clr=TRUE);}\par

This puts a new palette instance into the screen class.  If clr is true,
 then the screen is cleared before and after the hardware palette change.
\par

{\b void set_brightness(float b);}\par

Sets the brightness factor (see 'brightness' above).
\par

{\b float get_brightness() const { return brightness; }}\par

Returns the brightness factor.
\par

{\b void invalidate (const VngoRect &);\line
void invalidate ();}\par

Invalidates a rectangle or the entire screen for damaged-rectangle tracking
 used during flip().
\par

{\b BOOL capture();}\par

Captures the current screen viewport contents to a SNAPxxxx.BMP file in
 the current directory.  It automatically finds the first non-existent
 file starting with SNAP0000.BMP and ending with SNAP9999.BMP.  Returns
 TRUE if successful, FALSE otherwise.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Control Flags}\par

{\i FULLSCREEN}\tab Allow screen to switch into target video mode.
\par

{\i TRUEFLIP}\tab Use true page-flipping.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Error Codes}\par

These defines are local to the SimScreen class:
\par

{\i ERROR_NONE}\tab No Error.
\par

{\i ERROR_NOMEMORY}\tab Memory allocation failed.
\par

{\i ERROR_INVALIDPARMS}\tab Invalid input parameters (usually bit-depth).
\par

{\i ERROR_SCNRMNGRINIT}\tab Screen manager failed to initialize.
\par

{\i ERROR_PALINIT}\tab Initialization of palette failed.
\par

{\i ERROR_MODEFAIL}\tab Initialization of video mode failed.
\par

{\i ERROR_MODENOTSUPP}\tab Cannot support the requested mode on this
 hardware (basically this means 320x240 doesn't work with the driver on
 this machine, but 640x480 will work).
\par

{\i ERROR_VPORTINIT}\tab Initialization of viewport failed.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimScreenDD Class                                                         ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMSCREENDD}
${\footnote SimScreenDD Class}
K{\footnote SimScreenDD;
SimScreenDD, init;
SimScreenDD, create_subviewport}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimScreenDD Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class implements the SimScreen interface for a DirectDraw surface.  This
 is the fastest method for displaying graphics, but is extremely sensitive to
 the proper use of lock()/unlock() and is difficult to use while
 debugging.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimScreenDD - DirectDraw Screen class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simscrn.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimScreenDD();}\par

Initializes internal pointers.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual error_codes init (ushort w, ushort h,
 ushort bd = 16, dword flags=FULLSCREEN);}\par

Initializes the DirectDraw screen class.
\par

{\b virtual VngoVport *create_subviewport(VngoRect &srect, dword flags);}\par

Creates a sub-viewport which shares the main DirectDraw surface.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimScreenDIB Class                                                        ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMSCREENDIB}
${\footnote SimScreenDIB Class}
K{\footnote SimScreenDIB;
SimScreenDIB, init;
SimScreenDIB, create_subviewport}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimScreenDIB Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class implements the SimScreen interface using the Windows DIB and
 WinG interface for displaying the graphics and setting the palette, but uses
 the DirectDraw interface to change the video mode.  This is slower, but works
 in many cases where poor DirectDraw drivers might fail to operate.  It is
 easier to debug while using the DIB SimScreen interface when combined with
 not allowing the video mode switch.
\par

{\cf2
Note: Since this class uses the Windows palette system, the palette will be
 adjusted by Windows to include the 32 system colors.  Therefore, some colors
 may not be dispalyed exactly correct while using the DIB screen class.
}\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimScreenDIB - DIB Screen Class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simscrn.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimScreenDIB();}\par

Initializes internal pointers.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual error_codes init (ushort w, ushort h,
 ushort bd = 16, dword flags=FULLSCREEN);}\par

Initializes the DIB screen class.
\par

{\b virtual VngoVport *create_subviewport(VngoRect &srect, dword flags);}\par

Creates a sub-viewport which shares the main DIB.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimScreenD3D Class                                                        ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMSCREEND3D}
${\footnote SimScreenD3D Class}
K{\footnote SimScreenD3D;
SimScreenD3D, init;
SimScreenD3D, create_subviewport}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimScreenD3D Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class implements the SimScreen interface using {\i Van Gogh's}
 Microsoft Direct3D chipset implementation, which requires DirectX V5.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimScreenD3D - Microsoft Direct3D Screen Class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simscrn.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimScreenD3D();}\par

Initializes internal pointers.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb SimScreen}{\v SG_SIMSCREEN}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual error_codes init (ushort w, ushort h,
 ushort bd = 16, dword flags=FULLSCREEN);}\par

Initializes the Direct3D screen class.
\par

{\b virtual VngoVport *create_subviewport(VngoRect &srect, dword flags);}\par

Creates a sub-viewport which shares the video buffer.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimState Class                                                            ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMSTATE}
${\footnote SimState Class}
K{\footnote SimState;
SimState, pump_windows;
SimState, display;
SimState, activiate;
SimState, deactivate;
SimState, process_events;
SimState, render;
SimState, panic;
SimState, process_msg;
SimState, process_sys;
SimState, process_chat;
SimState, switch_to;
SimState, load_string;
SimState, message_box}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimState Class}\par\pard\sb100

{\cf4\scaps CHANGED}\line
This class forms the basic interface for a 'state' or 'mode' of the
 application.  Only a single state is active at a time and is called by
 SimGine::run() within the main application loop.  Control can be passed
 from state to state by using switch_to(), which deactivates the current
 state and activates a new state.  The currently running state is pointed
 to by the global {\b Mode}.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimState - Abstract State Interface Class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simstate.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimState();}\par

Performs no initialization.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

{\b virtual BOOL pump_windows ();}\par

This routine performs the basic Windows pump which gets messages,
 translates them, and then dispatches them.  The base implementation
 processes all pending messages before returning.  If a quit message
 is encountered, FALSE is returned which causes SimGine::run() to
 terminate the main loop.  Otherwise, TRUE is returned.
\par

{\b virtual void display();}\par

This routine performs a flip() call on the SimScreen instance pointed
 to by {\b Screen}.  This is called at the end of the application loop
 before starting again with a pump_windows() call.
\par

{\b virtual void activate ();}\par

This member is called when the state is becoming the new active and current
 {\b Mode}.  This is where memory allocations, event setup, and other
 operations should be performed in order to make the new state the
 current state--the old state has already been deactivated by the time
 this routine is called.
\par

{\b virtual void deactivate ();}\par

This member is called when the state is no longer the current and active
 {\b Mode}.  This code should be guarded against multiple calls and
 called from the virtual destructor for the class.  It should free all
 memory allocated by the activate() call.
\par

{\b virtual void process_events() = 0;}\par

This member is called each time through the application loop to perform
 event/input and time-based processing.
\par

{\b virtual void render() = 0;}\par

This member is called each time through the application loop to perform
 the drawing of the video portions of the state.
\par

{\cf4\scaps CHANGED}\line
{\b virtual void panic (ulong id, const char *str=0);\line
virtual void panic (const char *msg);}\par

These routines should be called when a fatal error is encountered.  This
 routine displays the error (either the string from the resource string
 table or the given string), calls exit_instance() on the app, and then
 exits the process immediately.
\par

{\b virtual void process_msg  (void *ptr, ulong len, ulong pid, ulong time);}\line
{\b virtual void process_sys  (void *ptr, ulong len, ulong pid, ulong time);}\line
{\b virtual void process_chat (void *ptr, ulong len, ulong pid, ulong time);}\par

These routines are for overloading by derived classes.  They provide
 a central point for dispatching network messages.  Ordinarily, Networking
 issues are left as the domain of the application, but these members have
 been added to facilitate message dispatch in a clean, object-oriented way.
 The default implementations do nothing.
\par

{\b void switch_to (SimState *next);}\par

This routine switches the current and active {\b Mode} to the state pointer
 given as 'next', which must be non-null.
\par

{\b static char *load_string(ulong id);\line
static char *load_string(ulong id, char *buff, ulong len);}\par

These routines load strings from the resource string table.  The first
 version allocates the memory needed for the string from {\i Ivory} static
 memory space, while the second returns the data in a passed buffer.
\par

{\b static int message_box(const char *str, UINT type);\line
static int message_box(ulong id, UINT type);}\par

These routines display a Windows Message Box using either the given string
 or a string from the resource string table.
\par

{\cf2
Note:  MessageBox will not operate if SimScreenDD is active since this is
 not compatable with DirectDraw.
}\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimulatorState Class                                                      ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMULATORSTATE}
${\footnote SimulatorState Class}
K{\footnote SimulatorState;
SimulatorState, activate;
SimulatorState, deactivate;
SimulatorState, process_events;
SimulatorState, render}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimulatorState Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class is a SimState-derived class which represents the simulator
 itself.  While this state is active, all real-time processing of the
 simulation takes place and all user-interface is controlled via a
 {\uldb SimUI}{\v SG_SIMUI} class instance.  All other SimStates in the
 application are considered 'wrappers' which provide gameflow into and
 out of the simulation, plus whatever configuration/setup features are
 needed by the specific title.
\par

The SimulatorState class contains a number of data fields used by other
 supporting classes to provide the basic structure for the real-time
 environment.  In addition, the user-interface elements have been further
 broken down into {\uldb SimUI}{\v SG_SIMUI} classes which in turn break
 down the interface into {\uldb SimView}{\v SG_SIMVIEW} classes.  These
 are analogous to the way {\uldb SimState}{\v SG_SIMSTATE} classes operate,
 but are limited to within the context of a SimulatorState-derived
 class.
\par

In a SimulatorState-derived class, one or more {\uldb SimUI}{\v SG_SIMUI}
 class instances should be created and the 'ui' member variable should
 point to the starting instance before calling the base activate() routine.
\par

{\cf2
Note: Use of this class imposes a fairly stringent architectural structure
 on the appliction and is therefore not suitable to all titles.  The general
 structure of SimStates, SimGine, SimScreen, and SimAudio provide the most
 generic support for applications development, while SimulatorState and its
 related classes are somewhat more specialized.
}\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimulatorState - Simulator-specific State Class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simstate.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb SimState}{\v SG_SIMSTATE}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimulatorState();}\par

Clears internal pointers.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b dword flags;}\par

This contains control flags for the SimulatorState (see {\b Model Flags}
 below).
\par

{\b SimUI *ui;}\par

This points to the current {\uldb SimUI}{\v SG_SIMUI} instance which recieves
 all the process_events() and render() calls while the simulator state is
 active.  This should be changed with SimUI::switch_to() after it is
 first set in activate().
\par

{\b float timebase;\line
ulong timeshift;\line
ulong time_now;}\par

These variables are used for tracking time within the simulator model.  The
 timebase is the last processed time in seconds and time_now is the last
 processed time in milliseconds.  The timeshift value is used to increase
 the flow of time from 1:1 to 2:1 or higher.
\par

{\b Chronometer clock;}\par

This is the real-time clock used to update the simluator model time.
\par

{\b ushort obj_hi;\line
ushort obj_max;\line
SimObject **objects;}\par

These variables represent the dynamic array of
 {\uldb SimObject}{\v SG_SIMOBJECT} class instances.
\par

{\b ushort temp_hi;\line
ushort temp_max;\line
SimTemp **temps;}\par

These variables represent the dynamic array of
 {\uldb SimTemp}{\v SG_SIMTEMP} class instances.
\par

{\b sim_team_t teams[SIM_MAX_TEAMS];}\par

This variable contains a structre for each team of the form:
\par

\tab {\b ushort unit_hi;\line
\tab ushort unit_max;\line
\tab SimUnit **units;}\line
\tab {\b ushort ofld_hi;\line
\tab ushort ofld_max;\line
\tab SimOffield **offields;}\par

These variables represent the dynamic arrays of
 {\uldb SimUnit}{\v SG_SIMUNIT} and {\uldb SimOffield}{\v SG_SIMOFFIELD}
 class instances for each team.  The teams are currently defined as
 {\i SIM_TEAM_GRAY}, {\i SIM_TEAM_BLUE}, {\i SIM_TEAM_RED},
 {\i SIM_TEAM_GOLD}, and {\i SIM_TEAM_GREEN}.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb SimState}{\v SG_SIMSTATE}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual void activate ();}\par

The base routine creates the empty dynamic arrays and calls activate for the
 starting ui.
\par

{\b virtual void deactivate ();}\par

The base routine calls deactivate for the current ui and destroys the
 dynamic arrays and their conents.
\par

{\b virtual void process_events();}\par

The base routine performs the model timing and step() loop and then calls
 the current ui's process_events() member.
\par

{\b virtual void render();}\par

The base routine calls the current ui's render() member.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Model Flags}\par

{\i MODEL_FROZEN}\tab This indicates that none of the data objects should
 be stepped since time is frozen (paused or pre/post-simulator).
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimUI Class                                                               ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMUI}
${\footnote SimUI Class}
K{\footnote SimUI;
SimUI, activate;
SimUI, deactivate;
SimUI, process_events;
SimUI, render;
SimUI, switch_to}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimUI Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class encapsulates the user-interface associated with the
 {\uldb SimulatorState}{\v SG_SIMULATORSTATE} and contains one or more
 instances of {\uldb SimView}{\v SG_SIMVIEW}-derived classes.  View
 management and shared user-interface elements should be handled by
 SimUI-derived classes.  A SimUI is generally used to control a unit
 within a simulation, and therefore includes a pointer to a
 {\uldb SimUnit}{\v SG_SIMUNIT} class instance.   Only a single ui
 instance is active at any given time.
\par

Because the simulator model variables are only valid while within the
 {\uldb SimulatorState}{\v SG_SIMULATORSTATE} state, multiple SimUI classes
 can be used to handle various stages of user-interface within the simulation.
 For example, one SimUI could handle pre-battle setup and then switch to
 a SimUI for the cockpit/stragetic views, and another SimUI for the
 post-battle displays.  Distinct units may have extremely different
 interfaces which cannot be handled by a simple change of
 {\uldb SimView}{\v SG_SIMVIEW} classes, and therefore may need different
 SimUI classes to manage the appropriate views.
\par

In a SimUI-derived class, one or more {\uldb SimView}{\v SG_SIMVIEW}
 class instances should be created and the 'view' member variable should
 point to the starting instance before calling the base activate() routine.
\par

{\cf2
Note:  For some cases (such as pre-/post-battle screens), it may not be
 necessary to create SimView class instances as only one screen is ever
 used by the SimUI instance.  In this case, simply overload the
 activate(), deactivate(), process_events(), and render() members do
 not call the base routines.
}\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimUI - Simulator-specific user-interface class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simstate.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimUI(SimulatorState *_parent);}\par

Sets the parent pointer and clears the view and unit pointers.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b SimulatorState *parent;}\par

Points to the {\uldb SimulatorState}{\v SG_SIMULATORSTATE} that contains
 this instance of the class.  This pointer is used by the switch_to()
 routine.
\par

{\b SimView *view;}\par

Points to the currently active {\uldb SimView}{\v SG_SIMVIEW} class instance
 which recieves the process_events() and render() calls.  Should be changed
 with SimView::switch_to() after it is first set in activate().
\par

{\b SimUnit *unit;}\par

Points to the currently controlled {\uldb SimUnit}{\v SG_SIMUNIT}
 class instance, if any.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

{\b virtual void activate ();}\par

The base routine calls the activate() member of the current view.
\par

{\b virtual void deactivate ();}\par

The base routine calls the deactivate() member of the current view, if any.
\par

{\b virtual void process_events();}\par

The base routine calls the process_events() member of the current view.
\par

{\b virtual void render();}\par

The base routine calls the render() member of the current view.
\par

{\b void switch_to (SimUI *next);}\par

This routine switches the current and active 'ui' to the ui pointer
 given as next, which must be non-null.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimView Class                                                             ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMVIEW}
${\footnote SimView Class}
K{\footnote SimView;
SimView, activate;
SimView, deactivate;
SimView, process_events;
SimView, render;
SimView, switch_to}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimView Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class encapuslates a given view or screen within a
 {\uldb SimUI}{\v SG_SIMUI} instance.  It should handle the view specific
 drawing and input processing and is generally associated with the
 ui's unit pointer.  Only a single view is active at any given time.
\par

In general, a SimView should be created for each 'position' or
 'point-of-view' within the simulation which requires an explicit switch
 by the player.  For example, in a flight-simulation of a two pilot
 helicopter, one SimView would represent the pilot's seat, while another
 represents the gunner's seat, a third SimView-derived class
 would be used for the external view and yet another for an in-simulation
 configuration screen.  If multiple {\uldb SimUI}{\v SG_SIMUI} classes
 are required for the application, they may share one or more SimView-derived
 classes (an external view would probably work the same for all vehicles,
 for example, and could be implemented in a single SimView-derived class
 which is instanced by all {\uldb SimUI}{\v SG_SIMUI}-derived vehicle
 control classes).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimView - Simulator-specific user-interface view.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simstate.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimView(SimUI *_parent);}\par

Sets the parent pointer.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b SimUI *parent;}\par

Points to the SimUI class that contains this instance.  It is used by the
 switch_to() routine.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

{\b virtual void activate ();}\par

This member is called when the instance is made the current and active view.
\par

{\b virtual void deactivate ();}\par

This member is called when the instance is no longer the active view.
\par

{\b virtual void process_events() = 0;}\par

This member is called each time through the application loop to perform
 event/input and time-based processing.
\par

{\b virtual void render() = 0;}\par

This member is called each time through the application loop to perform
 the drawing of the video portions of the state.
\par

{\b void switch_to (SimView *next);}\par

This routine switches the current and active 'view' to the view pointer
 given as next, which must be non-null.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimBase Class                                                             ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMBASE}
${\footnote SimBase Class}
K{\footnote SimBase;
SimBase, release;
SimBase, get_position;
SimBase, set_position;
SimBase, insert;
SimBase, remove;
SimBase, set_name}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimBase Class}\par\pard\sb100

Within the {\uldb SimulatorState}{\v SG_SIMULATORSTATE}, things in the
 simulation are modeled by classes derived from this base class.  The exact
 dynamic array they are placed into is based on the class and team identifier.
 This base class defines an abstract interface for the management of
 items within the simulation.
\par

Items in the simulation are 'stepped' each frame for time-based updating by
 SimulatorState::process_events() unless {\i SimulatorState::MODEL_FROZEN}
 is set.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimBase - Base simulator representation class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simmodel.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimBase(SimulatorState *_parent);}\par

Sets the parent pointer.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b dword base_flags;}\par

Base-class control flags (see {\b Base Flags} below).
\par

{\b SimulatorState *parent;}\par

Points to parent {\uldb SimulatorState}{\v SG_SIMULATORSTATE}.
\par

{\b ushort index;}\par

Index within dynamic array.
\par

{\b ushort team;}\par

Team identifier (see {\i SIM_TEAM_} constants in
 {\uldb SimulatorState}{\v SG_SIMULATORSTATE}.
\par

{\b char name[SIM_MAX_NAME];}\par

Name of instance.  Should be set with set_name().
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

{\b virtual void release();}\par

Releases all data associated with the representation instance.
\par

{\b virtual void step(float interval);}\par

Indicates that the item should update itself for the passing of 'interval'
 time, which is given in seconds.
\par

{\b virtual void get_position(EschPoint &pos) const;\line
virtual void set_position(EschPoint &pos);}\par

Gets/sets the position of the item in 3-space, if relavent.
\par

{\b virtual BOOL insert(ushort t) = 0;}\par

Sets the team identifer to team 't' and inserts the item into the
correct dynamic array.
\par

{\b virtual void remove() = 0;}\par

Removes the item from the dynamic array it may be inserted within.
\par

{\b void set_name(const char *_name); }\par

Sets the 'name' member for the instance name.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Flags}\par

{\i BASE_INACTIVE}\tab Indicates that the item should be skipped during the
 'step' processing.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimObject Class                                                           ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMOBJECT}
${\footnote SimObject Class}
K{\footnote SimObject;
SimObject, insert;
SimObject, remove}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimObject Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class represents non-player/AI controlled permanent objects within the
 simulation (planets, asteriods, trees, windmills, power stations, barracks,
 etc.).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimObject - Object simulation representation class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simmodel.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimObject(SimulatorState *_parent);}\par

Sets the parent pointer.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual BOOL insert(ushort t);\line
virtual void remove();}\par

Inserts/removes the item into/from the 'objects' dynamic array.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimUnit Class                                                             ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMUNIT}
${\footnote SimUnit Class}
K{\footnote SimUnit;
SimUnit, release;
SimUnit, step;
SimUnit, insert;
SimUnit, remove}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimUnit Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class represents player/AI controlled permanent objects within the
 simulation (vehicles, gun-turrets, etc.)  Units are defined with a
 collection of {\uldb SimEquip}{\v SG_SIMEQUIP} class instances which
 indicate the equipment and functional systems of the unit.  This design
 allows dynamic adjustment of equipment as well as an object-oriented
 breakdown for the implementation of the units within the simulation.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimUnit - Unit simulation representation class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simmodel.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimObject(SimulatorState *_parent);}\par

Sets the parent pointer.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual void release();}\par

Releases any equipment instances.
\par

{\b virtual void step(float interval);}\par

Steps equipment instances for time-based processing.
\par

{\b virtual BOOL insert(ushort t);\line
virtual void remove();}\par

Inserts/removes the item into/from the team[].units dynamic array.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimEquip Class                                                            ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMEQUIP}
${\footnote SimEquip Class}
K{\footnote SimEquip;
SimEquip, release;
SimEquip, step}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimEquip Class}\par\pard\sb100

Instances of this class implement specific equipment and functional systems
 used as part of a {\uldb SimUnit}{\v SG_SIMUNIT} (weapons, engines, computers,
 sensors, etc.).  SimEquip instances can be mixed and matched to create
 new kinds of units or to customize current ones.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimEquip - Equipment in units simulation representation class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simmodel.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimEquip(SimUnit *_parent);}\par

Sets parent pointer.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b SimUnit *parent;}\par

Points to parent {\uldb SimUnit}{\v SG_SIMUNIT}.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

{\b virtual void release();}\par

Releases all data associated with the representation instance.
\par

{\b virtual void step(float interval);}\par

Indicates that the equipment/system should update itself for the passing
 of 'interval' time, which is given in seconds.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimTemp Class                                                             ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMTEMP}
${\footnote SimTemp Class}
K{\footnote SimTemp;
SimTemp, insert;
SimTemp, remove}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimTemp Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class represents temporarily created objects within the simulation
 (bullets, rockets, laser beams, explosions, smoke, grenades etc.).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimTemp - Temporary simulation representation class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simmodel.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimObject(SimulatorState *_parent);}\par

Sets the parent pointer.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual BOOL insert(ushort t);\line
virtual void remove();}\par

Inserts/removes the item into/from the 'temps' dynamic array.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
SimOffield Class                                                          ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote SG_SIMOFFIELD}
${\footnote SimOffield Class}
K{\footnote SimOffield;
SimOffield, insert;
SimOffield, remove}
+{\footnote BW_XSG_1}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps SimGime Framework Guide}\line\fs32 SimOffield Class}\par\pard\sb100

This class represents items outside of the scope of the simulation, which
 can influence it or create {\uldb SimTemp}{\v SG_SIMTEMP} objects
 (artillery, offield mortars, etc.)
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

SimOffield - Offield simulation representation class
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "simmodel.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

{\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b SimObject(SimulatorState *_parent);}\par

Sets the parent pointer.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Functions}\par

Same as {\uldb SimBase}{\v SG_SIMBASE}, plus :-
\par

{\b virtual BOOL insert(ushort t);\line
virtual void remove();}\par

Inserts/removes the item into/from the team[].offields dynamic array.
\par

\pard\page

{\comment °±² eof - simgine.rtf ²±° }
}
