{\rtf1
{\comment
ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ

                             Gutenberg Help

                     Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT Version

   Copyright (c) 1995-1999 by Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 This file and all associated files are subject to the terms of the
 GNU Lesser General Public License version 2 as published by the
 Free Software Foundation (http://www.gnu.org).   They remain the
 property of the authors: Dan Higdon, Tim Little, and Chuck Walbourn.
 See LICENSE.TXT in the distribution for a copy of this license.

 THE AUTHORS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE CORRECTNESS
 OF THIS CODE OR ANY DERIVATIVE WORKS WHICH INCORPORATE IT.  THE AUTHORS
 PROVIDE THE CODE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS AND EXPLICITLY DISCLAIMS ANY
 LIABILITY, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL AND INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FOR ERRORS,
 OMISSIONS, AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN THE CODE.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

                        http://www.mythos-engine.org/

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 Gutenberg is a component of the MythOS(tm) collection.

 MythOS is a trademark of Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.

ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ
}

{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss Arial;
\f1\froman Times New Roman;
\f2\fmodern Courier New;
\f3\fswiss MS Sans Serif;
\f4\froman MS Serif;
}
\deff1
\fs21

{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
}

{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                            Programmer's Guide

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_GBERG_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_PG_B}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

The purpose of the {\i Gutenberg} library is to provide a standard
 collection of routines for working with text and text output.
 Low-level text output via {\i Van Gogh} is provided.  In addition, a
 standard string resource system is provided for externalizing
 string files.  This reduces the executable footprint and allows
 easier customization and internationalization.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

Supports monochrome, monospace and variable-width raster fonts.
\par

Provides a standard for externalizing static strings.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Future Work}\par

Character mode support may be added to this library for direct
 video character output in text-mode.
\par

Support for color fonts is planned.  Scaleable fonts could be
 supported as well.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
C-style Control Routines                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_GBERG_CSTYCTRL}
${\footnote C-style Control Routines}
K{\footnote gberg_init;gberg_term}
+{\footnote BW_PG_B}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 C-style Control Routines}\par\pard\sb100

The {\i Gutenberg} library can be initialized via either the
 {\uldb GBergSystem}{\v PG_GBERG_SYSCLASS} class or directly via
 the following C routines.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "gutenbrg.h"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Routines}\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_init();}\par

Initializes the library, allocated needed memory structures,
 returning a status (see Error Values).
\par

{\b void gberg_term();}\par

Terminates the library, releasing all memory that is in use.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Error Values}\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_NONE}\tab\tab No error occurred.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_NOMEMORY}\tab A memory allocation failed.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
C-style Text Output Control Routines                                      ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_GBERG_CSTYTEXT}
${\footnote C-style Text Output Control Routines}
K{\footnote gberg_color;
gberg_select_font;
gberg_install_font;
gberg_remove_font;
gberg_info_font;
gberg_outc;
gberg_widthc;
gberg_heightc;
gberg_width
}
+{\footnote BW_PG_B}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 C-style Text Output Control Routines}\par\pard\sb100

Text output is {\i Gutenberg's} primary use and there are a number of
 C-callable routines to control the output.  Since {\i Van Gogh}
 viewports are C++ objects, however, the text output functions
 are only callable from C++.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "gutenbrg.h"\tab for C interface
\par

#include "gutenbrg.hpp"\tab for C++ interface
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Routines}\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_color(dword fcol, dword bcol);}\par

Sets the current foreground and background colors to use for all
 output in graphics mode.  If bcol is set to {\i VNGO_TRANSPARENT}, no
 background will be drawn.
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_select_font(const char *fntname);}\par

Sets the current font for use for all output in graphics mode.
 The font is assumed to be installed via {\b gberg_install_font}.
 Returns a status result (see Error Values).
\par

{\cf4Note:  Unlike the DOS version, SYSTEM fonts are not supported.}
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_install_font(const char *fname, const char *fntname);}\par

Installs a font from a font data file, fname.  The fntname may
 be empty or set to NULL if the first font found is to be used.
 The installed font is automatically selected.  Returns a status
 result (see Error Values).
\par

For information on creating a font data file, see {\uldb {\i Gutenberg}
 User's Guide}{\v UG_GBERG_FONT}.
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_remove_font(const char *fntname);}\par

Removes a font from memory.  Returns a status result (see Error Values).
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_info_font(const char *fntname, GBergFontInfo *info);}\par

Copies information about a font, if installed, returning a
 status (see Error Values).  Information returned includes :-
\par

\tab {\b char name[GBERG_MAX_NAME]}\line
\tab   Font name\line

\tab {\b ushort width, height}\line
\tab   Font width and height (this is a bounding box for proportional)\line

\tab {\b ushort bpc}\line
\tab   Bytes per character\line

\tab {\b ushort type}\line
\tab   Font type (see Font Types)\line

\tab {\b byte *ptr}\line
\tab   If locked, this is a pointer to the font data.\line

\tab {\b IvoryHandle data}\line
\tab   Memory handle for font data.
\par

{\b long gberg_outc(VngoVport *vp, long x, long y, char c, BOOL vert=FALSE); (C++ only)}\par

Outputs a character to the given Van Gogh viewport.  It returns
 the width of the character unless vert is TRUE, in which case the
 height is returned..
\par

{\b long gberg_widthc(char c); (C++ only)\par}

Returns the width of the character for the currently selected font..
\par

{\b long gberg_heightc(); (C++ only)}\par

Returns the height of a character for the currently selected font.
\par

{\cf4\scaps NEW}\line
{\b long gberg_width(const char *str); (C++ only)\par}

Returns the width of the character string for the currently selected font..
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Error Values}\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_NONE}\tab No error occurred.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_NOMEMORY}\tab  A memory allocation failed.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_LOCKFAILED}\tab  An attempt to lock a memory handle failed.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_FILEERROR}\tab  File access failed.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_INVALIDDATA}\tab  Data in file is invalid.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_NOTSUPPORTED}\tab  Data format in file is not supported.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_FONTNOTINSTALLED}\tab  Requested font not installed.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_FONTNOTFOUND}\tab  Request font not in file.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Font Types}\par

{\i GBERG_FNT_MONOFIXED}\tab Monochrome, 128 character, fixed-size raster.
\par

{\i GBERG_FNT_COLORFIXED}\tab Color, 128 character, fixed-size raster.
\par

{\i GBERG_FNT_MONOFIXEDEX}\tab Monochrome, 256 character, fixed-size raster.
\par

{\i GBERG_FNT_MONOVARIABLE}\tab Monochrome, 128 character, variable-width raster.
\par

{\i GBERG_FNT_MONOVARIABLEEX}\tab Monochrome, 256 character, variable-width raster.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
C-style External String Routines                                          ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_GBERG_CSTYSTRING}
${\footnote C-style External String Routines}
K{\footnote gberg_loadstring;
gberg_select_strings;
gberg_install_strings;
gberg_remove_strings;
gberg_info_strings
}
+{\footnote BW_PG_B}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 C-style External String Routines}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Gutenberg} provides a standard for string resource.  A set of
 numbered strings are stored within a string table for use by the
 application.  The strings in this string table are compiled via
 the GSTRING compiler into a data file (see {\uldb {\i Gutenberg}
 User's Guide}{\v UG_GBERG_STRING}).  Strings tables may be
 installed and then required strings copied at run-time.
\par

Altering the strings in the string table only require that the
 support file be recompiled, rather than the entire application.
 Code that utilizes loaded strings should not assume the length
 of the string is known at compile time as changes could
 invalidate these assumptions.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "gutenbrg.h"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Routines}\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_loadstring(ulong num, char *buff, ulong len);}\par

Copies a string of up to len characters from the current string
 resource into buffer given in buff.  The string resource number
 is num.  Returns a status (see Error Values).
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_select_strings(const char *txtname);}\par

Sets the current string files for the gberg_loadstring function.
 Returns a status (see Error Values).
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_install_strings(const char *fname, const char *txtname);}\par

Installs a string table from a string data file, fname.  The
 txtname may be empty or set to NULL if the first string table
 found is to be used.  The installed table is automatically
 selected.  Returns a status result (see Error Values).
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_remove_strings(const char *txtname);}\par

Removes a string table from memory.  Returns a status result (see Error
 Values).
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes gberg_info_strings(const char *txtname, GBergTextInfo *info);}\par

Copies information about a string table, if installed, returning
 a status (see Error Values).  Information returned includes :-
\par

\tab{\b char name[GBERG_MAX_NAME]}\line
\tab   String table name.\line

\tab{\b ulong number_of_strings}\line
\tab   Count of strings in the string table.\line

\tab{\b IvoryHandle data}\line
\tab   Memory handle for string table.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Error Values}\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_NONE}\tab No error occurred.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_NOMEMORY}\tab A memory allocation failed.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_LOCKFAILED}\tab An attempt to lock a memory handle failed.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_FILEERROR}\tab File access failed.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_INVALIDDATA}\tab Data in file is invalid.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_NOTSUPPORTED}\tab Data format in file is not supported.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_TEXTNOTINSTALLED}\tab Requested string file not installed.
\par

{\i GBERG_ERR_STRINGNOTFOUND}\tab Requested string number not in resource.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Gutenberg System Class                                                    ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_GBERG_SYSCLASS}
${\footnote Gutenberg System Class}
K{\footnote GBergSystem;
GBergSystem, color;
GBergSystem, select_font;
GBergSystem, install_font;
GBergSystem, remove_font;
GBergSystem, info_font;
GBergSystem, select_strings;
GBergSystem, install_strings;
GBergSystem, remove_strings;
GBergSystem, info_strings}
+{\footnote BW_PG_B}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 Gutenberg System Class}\par\pard\sb100

The system class provides a standard C++ method for controlling
 the {\i Gutenberg} library.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

GBergSystem - System control class.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "gutenbrg.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

None
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b GBergSystem();}\par

The constructor calls the {\uldb gberg_init}{\v PG_GBERG_CSTYCTRL}
 function.  The destructor will call the {\uldb gberg_term}
 {\v PG_GBERG_CSTYCTRL} function.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

{\b gberg_error_codes color(dword fc, dword bc=VNGO_TRANSPARENT);}\line
{\b gberg_error_codes select_font(const char *f);}\line
{\b gberg_error_codes install_font(const char *fn, const char *f);}\line
{\b gberg_error_codes remove_font(const char *f);}\line
{\b gberg_error_codes info_font(const char *f, GBergFontInfo *i);}\par

Calls the {\uldb gberg_*}{\v PG_GBERG_CSTYTEXT} equivalent.
\par

{\b gberg_error_codes select_strings(const char *t);}\line
{\b gberg_error_codes install_strings(const char *fn, const char *t);}\line
{\b gberg_error_codes remove_strings(const char *t);}\line
{\b gberg_error_codes info_strings(const char *t, GBergTextInfo *i);}\par

Calls the {\uldb gberg_*}{\v PG_GBERG_CSTYSTRING} equivalent.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Text Output Class                                                         ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_GBERG_TEXTCLASS}
${\footnote Text Output Class}
K{\footnote GBergText;
GBergText, outc;
GBergText, outc_vert;
GBergText, out;
GBergText, out_vert;
GBergText, outf;
GBergText, outf_vert;
GBergText, out_wrap;
GBergText, setpos;
GBergText, getpos}
+{\footnote BW_PG_B}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 Text Output Class}\par\pard\sb100

Text output is typically done as if the screen consists of a
 number of character rows and columns.  The GBergText class
 implements to provide a convenient output syntax.  The currently
 selected font and color is used for all processing.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

GBergText - Text output object.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

#include "gutenbrg.hpp"
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

None
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

{\b GBergText(VngoVport *vp);}\par

Sets the vport member and sets the current position to 0,0.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

{\b long curx;}\par

Current X position in pixels.
\par

{\b long cury;}\par

Current Y position in pixels.
\par

{\b VngoVport  *vport;}\par

Associated Van Gogh viewport.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

{\b void outc(char c);}\line
{\b void outc(long x, long y, char c);}\par

Outputs a character, using either the current location or
 setting the current location before processing.  The current
 position is updated after the character is output.  The newline
 character ('\\n') is the only supported control character, and
 '\\r' is ignored.
\par

{\b void out(const char *str);}\line
{\b void out(long x, long y, char *str);}\par

Outputs a string, using either the current location or setting
 the current location before processing.  The current position is
 updated after the string is output.
\par

{\b void out_wrap(const char *str, VngoRect *prct = 0);}\par

Outputs a string, using either the current location or setting
 the current location before processing, wrapping the output to
 the given rectangle.  If no rectangle is supplied, the viewport's
 rectangle will be used.  If a word is too wide to fit within the
 width given, it will be split. The current position is
 updated after the string is output.
\par

{\b void out(long num);}\line
{\b void out(long x, long y, long num);}\par

Outputs a long integer, using either the current location or
 setting the current location before processing.  The current
 position is updated after the value is output.
\par

{\b void outf(const char *fmt, ...);}\par

Outputs using a standard C printf format string.  The total string must
 be less than 256 characters and conform to the limits of wsprintf.
\par

{\b void outc_vert(char c);\line
void outc_vert(long x, long y, char c);\line
void out_vert(const char *str);\line
void out_vert(long x, long y, const char *str);\line
void out_vert(long num);
void out_vert(long x, long y, long num);\line
void outf_vert (const char *fmt, ...);}\par

These are vertical-write versions of the various 'out' routines.
\par

{\b void setpos(byte row, byte col);}\par

Sets the current position using the currently selected fonts
 character's size (or bounding box) to compute the row and column.
\par

{\b void getpos(byte *row, byte *col);}\par

Returns the current position using the currently selected fonts
 character's size (or bounding box) to compute the row and column.
\par

\pard\page



{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                               User's Guide

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote UG_GBERG_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_UG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps User's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Gutenberg} provides text services including font output and
 externalized string tables.  A font converter and string table
 compiler are provided to support these functions
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

Font converter for generating {\i Gutenberg} fonts from existing font
 data.
\par

String compiler for generating loadable files of string tables,
 reducing the application's memory footprint and isolating string
 data.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Future Work}\par

Additional font formats may need to be supported.
\par

Extensions to the string compiler may be needed for more complex
 internationalization support.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Font Converter                                                            ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote UG_GBERG_FONT}
${\footnote Font Converter}
K{\footnote GFONT}
+{\footnote BW_UG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps User's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 Font Converter}\par\pard\sb100

{\i Gutenberg} font data can be converted from either the X Windows
 Bitmap Definition Format, from an {\i XFile} supported bitmap containing
 a grid of character cells, or from installed TrueType fonts.  This
 utility converts supported BDF and bitmap files into fixed-width
 {\i Gutenberg} IFF data files and captures TrueType fonts into fixed-
 or variable-width into {\i Gutenberg} IFF data files.
\par

{\cf2 Note:  Some TrueType fonts are licensed and can therefore not be
 freely converted into data files to use in your applications.  The utility
 will output information about the selected font, including whether or not
 it is licensed if the -q flag is not in use.}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Usage}\par

gfont [-q] [-i] [-n fontname]
\par

\tab <filename.bdf> [<filename.iff>]
\par
-or-
\par
\tab -w<number> -h<number> [-x<number>] [-y<number>] [-p<number>]\line
\tab -s<number> -c<number> [-r<number>] <filename.xxx> [<filename.iff>
\par
-or-
\par
\tab [-e] [-h<number>] [-w<number> [-s<number>] [-c<number>]\line
\tab [-b] [-t] [-u] [-k] [-o] [-8] <TrueType fontname> [<filename.iff>]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Options}\par

{\b -q}\par

By default, the font converter displays information about the
 font during conversion.  This option directs the converter to
 operate quietly.
\par

{\b -i}\par
This causes the font converter to inverse the colors in the font cells
 when converting.
\par

{\b -n}\par
By default, the name of the font is the same as the base name of the
 output filename.  This option provides a new font name string.
\par

{\b -w}\line
{\cf2\scaps BITMAP FILES ONLY}\par
Provides the width of the font cells.
\par

{\b -h}\line
{\cf2\scaps BITMAP FILES ONLY}\par
Provides the height of the font cells.
\par

{\b -x}\line
{\cf2\scaps BITMAP FILES ONLY}\par
Provides the starting offset in X of the font cells.
\par

{\b -y}\line
{\cf2\scaps BITMAP FILES ONLY}\par
Provides the starting offset in Y of the font cells.
\par

{\b -p}\line
{\cf2\scaps BITMAP FILES ONLY}\par
Space between cells in pixels for both X and Y.  This defaults to 0.
\par

{\b -s}\line
{\cf2\scaps BITMAP FILES ONLY}\par
Provides the character index of the first font cell in the bitmap.
\par

{\b -c}\line
{\cf2\scaps BITMAP FILES ONLY}\par
Provides the number of character cells in the bitmap file.
\par

{\b -r}\line
{\cf2\scaps BITMAP FILES ONLY}\par
Provides the number of character cells per row.  This default to 0, which
 assumes the cell row ends when the edge of the bitmap is reached.
\par

{\b -e}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Enumerates the installed TrueType fonts on the current system.
\par

{\b -h}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Provides desired height of font to capture, otherwise a system default is
 used.
\par

{\b -w}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
When finding an appropriate TrueType font, the height is used to match and
 whatever width the font requires is returned.  If this value is given, then
 the height is iteratively shortened by one point until a width less than
 the given value is found.
\par

{\b -s}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Starting character number to capture (defaults to 0.
\par

{\b -c}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Number of characters to capture (defaults to 256).
\par

{\b -b}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Captures Bold version of TrueType font.
\par

{\b -t}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Captures Italic version of TrueType font.
\par

{\b -u}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Captures Underline version of TrueType font.
\par

{\b -k}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Captures StrikeOut version of TrueType font.
\par

{\b -o}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
TrueType fonts are normally provided in the ANSI character set.  This switch
 forces the system-specific OEM character set to be captured.
\par

{\cf4\scaps CHANGED}\line
{\b -8}\line
{\cf2\scaps TRUETYPE CAPTURES ONLY}\par
Windows uses Codepage 1232 for most systems while older DOS-based
 translation services uses Codepage 850.  If this switch is set, then
 full character sets have most of their special characters moved from
 their CP1232 locations to where they occurr in CP850.  Characters
 without corresponding entries are missing from the font.
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
String Compiler                                                           ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote UG_GBERG_STRING}
${\footnote String Compiler}
K{\footnote GSTRING}
+{\footnote BW_UG_6}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps User's Guide: Gutenberg}\line\fs32 String Compiler}\par\pard\sb100

Externalized strings for must be compiled into a {\i Gutenberg}
 string IFF file before they may be loaded into the application
 via the string functions.  This utility compiles a source file
 description into these files.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Usage}\par

gstring [-q] [-h] [-r] <filename.cst> [-oi <filename.iff>] [-oh <filename.hpp/.h>]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Options}\par

{\b -q}\par

By default, the string compiler outputs informative messages
 during processing.  This option directs the compiler to operate
 quietly.
\par

{\b -h}\par

By default, the compiler generates a C++ header HPP file.  This
 switch directs the compiler to generate a C header H file.
\par

{\b -r}\par

By default, the compiler will include an author and description
 strings for the string tables in the output file.  This option
 directs the compiler to omit these for the 'release' version of
 the file.
\par

{\b -oi <filename.iff>}\par

By default, the compiler creates an output name from the
 filename of the input file.  This option overrides the selecting
 of the output IFF filename.
\par

{\b -oh <filename.hpp/h>}\par

By default, the compiler creates an output name from the
 filename of the input file.  This option overrides the selecting
 of the output HPP/H filename (see -h for HPP vs. H usage).
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Language}\par

The Charybdis CST source language is a simple grammar for
 describing the data for string tables.
\par

Charybdis CST source files are free-form text files which may
 contain assembly-style ';' to end-of-line comments.  Any number
 of string tables and includes may be defined, with each string
 table capable of using the include directive.
\par

{\b stringtable}\par

The string table is the basis of the format.  The syntax of a
 'stringtable' is:
\par

{\f2
stringtable <options>\line
\{\line
        <data items>\line
\}
}
\par

The string table options define global information about the
 entries.  The following options may be included:
\par

{\f2 name "<string>"}\par

This provides the name of the string table, which may be used to
 load and select the table at run-time.  This is the only
 required option.
\par

{\f2 author "<string>"}\par

This provides the author identification string.  This string is
 ignored for the production version of the output file.
\par

{\f2 description "<string>"}\par

This provides the description string.  This string is ignored
 for the 'release' version of the output file.
\par

{\f2 copyright "<string>"}\par

This provides the copyright string.
\par

Data items are strings which have the following syntax:
\par

{\f2
<identifier> [ = <expression> ] "<string>" [ "<string>" ]*
}
\par

The identifier is a unique C identifier which is put into the
 output header file with the associated string number for use by
 the application source code.  If the optional expression is not
 given, then the string number is one higher than the previous
 number (or 1, if no previous string exists in the string table).
 If multiple strings are given, they are concatenated.  C escape
 sequences may be used within the string ('\\n', '\\t', '\\r', '\\v',
 '\\f', '\\b', '\\', '\\x<hex>', '\\<octal>', etc.), but embedded
 NULs are not allowed and will result in a compiler error.
\par

{\b include}\par

An include section inserts another Charybdis CST source file
 into the current file and continues to generate the string table
 file.  The syntax of an include section is:
\par

{\f2
include "<filename.cst>"
}
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

{\f2
;-----------------------------------------------------\line
;\line
; TEST.CST\line
;\line
; Example for string compiler.\line
;\line
;-----------------------------------------------------\line
\line
stringtable\line
        name        "MyTable"\line
        author      "Chuck Walbourn"\line
        description "This is a test string entry"\line
        copyright   "(C) 1995-1999 by CEI"\line
\{\line
MYTHOS_NAME\line
        "MythOS(tm)"\line
COMPANY_NAME=34\line
        "Charybdis Enterprises, Inc."\line
GBERG_NAME\line
        "Gutenberg"\line
        " - a font and string support library\n"\line
\}
}
\par

Type the following to compile 'TEST.CST' into 'TEST.IFF' and
'TEST.HPP'
\par

{\f2 gstring test.cst}\par

The resulting 'TEST.IFF' will contain a valid {\i Gutenberg} string
table named 'MyTable' with three strings:
\par

String 1:  "MythOS(tm)"\line
String 34:  "Charybdis Enterprises, Inc."\line
String 35:  "Gutenberg - a font and string support library\n"\line
\par

\pard\page

{\comment °±² eof - gutenbrg.rtf ²±° }
}
