{\rtf1
{\comment
ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ

                                Euler Help

                     Microsoft Windows 95/NT Version

               Copyright (c) 1998 by Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.
                           All Rights Reserved.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

           *** Charybdis Enterprises, Inc. Company Confidential ***

  This file and all associated files are the company proprietary property
        of Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.  Unauthorized use prohibited.

 CHARYBDIS ENTERPRISES, INC. MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS
 TO THE CORRECTNESS OF THIS CODE OR ANY DERIVATIVE WORKS WHICH INCORPORATE
 IT.  CHARYBDIS ENTERPRISES, INC. PROVIDES THE CODE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS
 AND EXPLICITLY DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL AND
 INCIDENTAL DAMAGES FOR ERRORS, OMISSIONS, AND OTHER PROBLEMS IN THE CODE.

ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

 Euler is a component of the MythOS(tm) collection.

 Created by Chuck Walbourn

 MythOS is a trademark of Charybdis Enterprises, Inc.

ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ
}

{\fonttbl
\f0\fswiss Arial;
\f1\froman Times New Roman;
\f2\fmodern Courier New;
\f3\fswiss MS Sans Serif;
\f4\froman MS Serif;
}
\deff1
\fs21

{\colortbl;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue0;
}

{\comment
°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°

                            Programmer's Guide

°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°°
}

{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
Overview                                                                  ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_ELR_OVERVIEW}
${\footnote Overview}
+{\footnote BW_PG_n}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Euler}\line\fs32 Overview}\par\pard\sb100

The {\i Euler} library is a math and computation library which provides support
 for data types needed by 2D and 3D graphics and other misc. numeric processing
 tasks.  Primarily support for points, vectors, and matricies are provided.
 Single-precision floating-point datum are the standard for numeric
 representation in most modern titles as they are a good trade-off of precision
 vs. data size and perform well on Pentium-class machines.  It also avoids
 many of the special case problems presented by fixed-point representations.
\par

{\i Euler} also provides versions of some routines optimized for the AMD
 3D-Now instruction set and are overloaded by the use of pointers-to-functions.
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Features}\par

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Future Work}\par

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Organization}\par

[Text]
\par

\pard\page


{\comment
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
classname                                                                 ³
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
}
\keepn
#{\footnote PG_ELR_classident}
${\footnote classdesc}
K{\footnote classname;classname, member}
+{\footnote BW_PG_n}
{\b\f0{\cf2\scaps Programmer's Guide: Euler}\line\fs32 classdesc}\par\pard\sb100

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Name}\par

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Synopsis}\par

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Base Classes}\par

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Constructors}\par

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Data}\par

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Member Function}\par

[Text]
\par

\line{\b\fs28 Example}\par

[Text]
\par

{\f2
[Source]
}
\par

\pard\page

{\comment °±² eof - euler.rtf ²±° }
}
